Aramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, has successfully closed a landmark transaction to acquire a 10% interest in Rongsheng Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (“Rongsheng”) for RMB 24.6 billion ($3.4 billion), through its subsidiary Aramco Overseas Company BV, based in the Netherlands.
The acquisition follows the signing of definitive strategic agreements by both parties announced on March 27, 2023. It represents the continued growth of Aramco’s downstream presence in China and includes the supply of 480,000 barrels per day of Arabian crude to the largest Chinese integrated refining and chemicals complex, which is owned by Rongsheng affiliate Zhejiang Petroleum and Chemical Co. Ltd (ZPC). Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Downstream President, said: “Our strategic partnership with Rongsheng advances Aramco’s liquids to chemicals strategy while growing our presence in China and showcases our importance as a reliable supplier of crude oil. This key acquisition is an important part of Aramco’s long-term growth strategy, expanding our presence in a vital market.” Li Shuirong, Chairman of Rongsheng, said: “The completion of this transaction marks the entry of Rongsheng and Aramco into a new era together, and also signifies an important step forward in Rongsheng's internationalization strategy.”
Rongsheng owns a 51% equity interest in ZPC, whose complex has the capacity to process 800,000 barrels per day of crude oil and to produce 4.2 million metric tons of ethylene per year.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, TotalEnergies, and SABIC have for the first time in the Middle East and North Africa successfully converted oil derived from plastic waste into ISCC+ certified circular polymers. The plastic pyrolysis oil, also called plastic waste derived oil (PDO), was processed at the SATORP refinery jointly owned by Aramco and TotalEnergies, in Jubail, Saudi Arabia. It was then used as a feedstock by PETROKEMYA, a SABIC affiliate, to produce certified circular polymers. The project aims to pave the way for the creation of a domestic value chain for the advanced recycling of plastics to circular polymers in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The process allows the use of non-sorted plastics, which can be difficult to recycle mechanically, and consequently contributes to solving the challenge of end-of-life plastics.  A first milestone for the project was obtaining ISCC+ certification to assure transparency and traceability of the recycled origin of feedstock and products. Three industrial plants were involved in the process: SATORP refinery, Aramco’s Ju'aymah NGL Fractionation Plant and PETROKEMYA. All successfully obtained the ISCC+ certification, enabling the production of circular materials.  Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco’s President of Downstream, said: “This achievement illustrates the importance of the petrochemical sector in creating more sustainable products and solutions. Our aim is to create circular solutions for plastic waste, while also making progress on our ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across our wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. By leveraging spare capacity of existing infrastructure, we aim to produce circular products that could be scaled up at low cost. Aramco is considering multiple ways of tapping into new technologies and leveraging existing assets to support the deployment of circular, more sustainable and lower-carbon products.” Bernard Pinatel, President, Refining & Chemicals, TotalEnergies, said: “This advanced plastic recycling initiative reflects TotalEnergies’ ambition to concretely contribute to addressing the challenge of end-of-life of plastics. Several other circular economy projects are being studied, leveraging the partners’ technical expertise and experience to further contribute to plastics recycling. It is a major pathway towards TotalEnergies’ target to produce 30% of circular polymers by 2030, and its strategy to build a multi-energy company with the ambition to get to net zero by 2050, together with society.” Sami Al-Osaimi, SABIC EVP Petrochemicals (A), said: “SABIC is a national champion in chemicals that supports Saudi Vision 2030, ensuring sustainable future growth by focusing on environment, energy and climate. This project is aligned with SABIC’s commitment to avoid landfill and incineration through its innovation competencies and advanced technology. This project shows collaboration across the petrochemical value chain to overcome upstream and downstream challenges in circular plastics. To this end, SABIC recently announced its target of one million metric tons of TRUCIRCLE ™ solutions by 2030, which intends to help provide our customers with more sustainable solutions.” SABIC and TotalEnergies are founding members of the non-profit organization Alliance to End Plastic Waste (AEPW), which aims to bring collective knowledge, resources and experience to address current waste management challenges.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim.  The Right Honorable Dato’ Seri Anwar Ibrahim, Prime Minister of Malaysia, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, good morning.  It is a pleasure to be in Kuala Lumpur, especially on the eve of Eid al-Adha. We are greatly honored that the Prime Minister could join us today.  I am also grateful to Tan Sri Tengku Muhammad Taufik and his team  for their warm hospitality, and for organizing this timely conference.  Let me first say a few words about the current energy market environment, which has been complicated by the conflict in Ukraine. Overall, we believe that oil market fundamentals remain generally sound for the rest of the year.  Despite the recession risks in several OECD countries, the economies of developing countries – especially China and India – are driving healthy oil demand growth of more than 2 million barrels per day this year. This is high by historical standards. And although China is facing some economic headwinds, the transport and petrochemical sectors are still showing signs of demand growth.  So we are optimistic about the market’s prospects for the rest of the year. And once the broader global economy starts to recover, supply-demand balances will likely tighten further.  But my main comments this morning focus on Asia’s energy future. How Asia’s priorities should be better reflected in the global energy transition debate. And how Asia’s and Aramco’s views on future energy align.  Let me begin with Asia’s rising economic dominance. The region now accounts for 46 percent of world GDP and is on track to reach half by 2050. Conversely, North America’s share is under 20 percent, while the EU’s is just 15 percent.  People in Asia are increasingly better off too, with GDP per capita rising from just a thousand dollars in 1980 to over eighteen thousand dollars today. And by 2050, three of the five largest economies in the world are expected to be Asian, with growth rates in emerging markets predicted to be twice as strong as developed economies. These are seismic changes. But when it comes to the energy transition, I do not believe the interests of this dynamic region are being adequately reflected in the popular energy transition narrative and current transition policies.  Existing transition policies rightly attempt to address environmental sustainability. However, the equally critical issues of energy security and affordability are under-emphasized.  We also know from experience that energy transitions are a complex, multi-generational process. Completely transforming a 100 trillion dollar global economy in just a quarter of a century is fanciful. And the same energy transition policies should not be applied to every nation, or it will severely affect the competitiveness of those who are not at the same economic maturity level.  All of this is relevant to the whole of Asia. In addition, the under-developed parts of Asia face particularly challenging realities. For example, almost half of the region, or 2 billion people, do not have access to clean cooking fuels, damaging health and the environment. And 150 million people have no access to electricity; 350 million have only limited access; while almost a billion experience frequent power interruptions. So it is a very diverse picture. In some parts of Asia, many still need basic access to energy to lift them out of poverty.  But as a rising economic powerhouse with a rising population, Asia needs increasing amounts of proven energy to keep its growing middle class growing. And that path to prosperity is increasingly threatened by current transition policies.  Even at the tip of the transition spear the picture is hardly rosy. For example, despite the welcome additional contributions from electric vehicles, solar, and wind over the past decade, their growth has not even met the growth in global energy consumption.  And the energy equivalent cost of green hydrogen is still in the range of 200 to 400 dollars per barrel, compared with the current oil price of around 75 dollars. So demand for conventional energy like oil and gas has continued to increase, while coal remains the world’s largest source of electricity. The prevailing narrative and current transition policies have already caused a decade of under-investment in oil and gas. When shocks occur, such as the conflict in Ukraine, it is not surprising that an energy crisis for many is the result.  And if you put all your transition eggs in the new energy basket, you are scrambling when that basket cannot carry the load!  The one silver lining is a growing realization that to address energy security and affordability as well as environmental sustainability, global transition policies must be more pragmatic, orderly, and inclusive.  That should encourage different forms of energy to run in parallel while scaling up alternatives to do more. With intensified global efforts, led by our industry, to further reduce the carbon footprint of conventional energy.  This includes the powerful instrument of efficiency enhancement. What would also help Asia is the acceptance of a multi-speed transition model. And proper levels of financial support for developing countries to help them adapt to climate change and transform energy systems. Thankfully, consensus is starting to build around this change of course. Large Asian energy consumers like China and Japan are already stressing that transition policies must be realistic as well as inspirational. And that new energy must be ready before reducing reliance on the old. Others stress that the path to carbon neutrality should be diverse, because the world has different economic and energy situations. But a lot more needs to be done for this pragmatic approach to become a worldwide reality.  I see this as Asia’s great opportunity to speak louder and more clearly about its unique transition priorities. Asia’s transition voice should match its economic voice.   At Aramco, we are turning this pragmatic approach into action.  For example, we are continuing investments in our upstream to help respond to the worrying global under-investment in oil and gas. We are also intensifying efforts to reduce our relatively low upstream carbon intensity.  And we are working on multiple technological fronts with the aim of reducing GHG emissions from conventional energy, such as CCS, Circular Carbon Economy, and Direct Air Capture. Together, it means the oil we supply can increasingly help Asian countries to meet their emissions reduction goals. Meanwhile, we are accelerating the expansion of our downstream and chemicals business. We are also adding new, lower carbon energy products to our portfolio, including hydrogen, ammonia, methanol, and e-fuels. And when it comes to global net-zero ambitions our strategies do not just keep a realistic energy transition in mind. They also acknowledge the need for a materials transition, including non-combustible uses of oil and gas in more sustainable materials that are the building blocks of modern life. Crucially, we are intensifying our efforts to become Asia’s energy provider of choice on the ground. In Korea, we recently began work on a seven billion dollar petrochemical project with S-Oil. Similarly, we recently signed agreements for two multi-billion dollar liquids to chemicals investments in China. And our PrefChem joint venture with Petronas in Johor shows the confidence we have in Malaysia and the broader ASEAN region.  The common thread is partnerships – with people we know personally, companies we can count on, in a region we respect. That is why we are doubling down on Asia’s growing demand for energy; chemicals; advanced materials; lubricants; and new lower carbon energy, supported by game-changing technologies, doubling down on these needs by being Asia’s “one-stop source” that also aims to balance energy security and affordability with environmental sustainability.  And with the largest capital expenditure program in our history, we are doubling down on investment opportunities for Asian companies in Saudi Arabia. Ladies and Gentlemen, like many in Asia, we see the future in decades not quarters, eras not cycles. So in a century that is Asian, we know that our future is Asia. If we can bring our combined strength to bear on a new approach to energy transition, that reflects Asia’s unique priorities, we can deliver the energy future that its economies and people deserve.  Thank you, Eid Mubarak, and Selamat Hari Raya Haji!Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and TotalEnergies today awarded Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contracts for the $11 billion "Amiral" complex, a future world-scale petrochemicals facility expansion at the SATORP refinery in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. A signing ceremony took place in Dhahran attended by Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, and Patrick Pouyanné, TotalEnergies Chairman and CEO. The award of EPC contracts for main process units and associated utilities marks the start of construction work on the joint petrochemical expansion, following the final investment decision in December 2022. Integrated with the existing SATORP refinery in Jubail, the new complex aims to house one of the largest mixed-load steam crackers in the Gulf, with a capacity to produce 1,650 kilotons per annum of ethylene and other industrial gases. This expansion is expected to attract more than $4 billion in additional investment in a variety of industrial sectors, including carbon fibers, lubes, drilling fluids, detergents, food additives, automotive parts and tires. It is also expected to create around 7,000 local direct and indirect jobs. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “Today we are taking a major step forward in further strengthening the partnership between TotalEnergies and Aramco, with the SATORP expansion project being the latest in a longstanding history of collaboration of almost five decades between both companies. As part of Aramco’s growth strategy, the project is anticipated to contribute to value-addition opportunities in the Kingdom’s downstream ecosystem, and we thank the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Investment for their tremendous support via the Shareek program to make this multi-billion-dollar project a reality.” Patrick Pouyanné, TotalEnergies Chairman and CEO, said: “This landmark opens a new page in our shared history with Aramco, which we are delighted to be associated with once again. This expansion project reinforces the exemplary relationship that our two companies have enjoyed for several decades in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We would like to thank the Ministry of Energy of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for its support throughout the development of this world-class project.” The signing ceremony was also attended by HE Won Hee-ryong, Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport of South Korea, government officials from Saudi Arabia, France and South Korea and company executives from Aramco, TotalEnergies and EPC firms. The EPC contracts were awarded to: Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellency, Minister of Land, Infrastructure and Transport, Won Hee-ryong, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. I welcome you all on another exciting day for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, and a new milestone in the relationship between Aramco, Total Energies, and SATORP.  I would like to thank the Kingdom’s Ministry of Energy, Ministry of Investment, and the Shareek program for the tremendous support in getting us to this landmark occasion.  This year marks Aramco’s 90th anniversary.  Since 1933, we have been rooted in strong partnerships. And indeed, we would not be as successful as we are today without the support and collaboration from partners like Total Energies. I would like to thank Patrick and the entire Total team for your trust and friendship. At the same time, bilateral relations between France and Saudi Arabia continue to strengthen, demonstrated by this week’s high-level meetings between His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince, Mohammed bin Salman and President Macron.  For Aramco and Total, our history dates back almost 50 years, where we have worked together in the downstream sector. Our SATORP joint venture is an example of how two companies that embody the spirit of innovation, collaboration, and progress, can come together to accomplish something remarkable. Just 10 short years ago, the first products cargo was shipped from SATORP on September 23, 2013 on Saudi National Day. And late last year, Aramco, Total and SABIC made a breakthrough in producing certified circular polymers from plastic waste derived oil processed at SATORP, a first in the region.  And now, when many in the energy industry are shying away from capital investments, I am delighted that we are taking SATORP to the next level, with an 11-billion-dollar expansion.  For our part at Aramco, we continue to look for ways to strike the right balance in providing the energy the world requires today and tomorrow, with a pragmatic, orderly, and inclusive energy transition plan. And we see petrochemicals playing a significant role in that vision. We aim to convert up to four million barrels per day of liquids to chemicals by 2030, expanding our value chain by producing advanced chemicals more efficiently using cutting-edge downstream technologies.  Through partnership with global industry leaders like Total, this expansion is essential to the Kingdom’s economic growth and diversification objectives. The EPC contractors signing today are world-class and will deliver with the excellence they are all known for with high local content.   Overall, we expect the SATORP expansion to create up to 7,000 local direct and indirect jobs, creating more opportunities for talented Saudis. It will further integrate with SATORP’s refinery, while also complementing other facilities in the Jubail Industrial City area such as Sadara and Saudi Kayan. And by having this expansion right here in Saudi Arabia, and bringing in billions of dollars of Foreign Direct Investment, we will continue to elevate an already significant contribution to the GDP of Saudi Arabia, which is on track to be the fastest-growing G20 economy this year. Supported by the government’s Shareek program, we are seeing more local and global private sector companies invest in Saudi Arabia, with those signing today showing just how successful the program has become. Whether it is investments locally from companies within the Kingdom, or those abroad from places like Europe and Asia, Aramco continues to see tremendous value in collaboration, enabling and enhancing our globally competitive and vibrant local energy sector.  Ladies and gentlemen, this truly is an exciting day for the Kingdom, Aramco, and everyone in this room today.   This expansion is a tremendous model for future success, all thanks to strong partnerships, great relationships and trust.  Once again, thank you to Shareek, the Ministry of Investment, and the Ministry of Energy under the leadership of His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman. As well as Total Energies and all of the EPC companies joining us today.  Together, we are not simply signing names on contracts, but we are sealing our trust in one another and embarking on the next step of our innovative and exciting journey as one team.  Thank you. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood morning and welcome to the 8th Young Leaders Advisory Board Town Hall. Thank you all for joining us, especially those of you who have traveled from outside of Dhahran. I always look forward to this Town Hall—it makes me feel much younger to be in a room with our youngest generation of employees!  Every one of these Town Hall meetings has demonstrated that our young people are ready to face the challenges ahead. And that’s really what I want to speak about today: Aramco’s future, and your role in it. But before that, I want to reflect on the past.  This year marks our 90th anniversary. Thank you for carrying on a long and proud tradition through your dedication, hard work, and in demonstrating the Aramco team spirit.   The history of the 20th century could not have been written without Aramco’s contributions. Already, we are having a similar impact on the 21st century…even without including the recent acquisition of Qadisiyah Sports Club! The Kingdom is rapidly changing in the context of Saudi Vison 2030, and Aramco is a key catalyst for change. We have an ambitious growth agenda, aimed at meeting the demands of today and laying the foundation for a more sustainable tomorrow. Our 2050 net-zero ambition is the key driver of our growth strategy. To execute that vision, we recently reorganized several aspects of our business. We enhanced our Strategy and Corporate Development functions. By bringing these two together, we are better able to define and implement our long-term vision. We established a new Technology & Innovation business line. This elevates our emphasis on integrating our work on lower carbon solutions with our digital transformation and IR4 technologies like AI, data analytics and machine learning.   Moving forward, we will also have two new positions: Upstream President and Downstream President, to help drive our long-term growth across our global portfolio and value chain. These changes will help bring our internal structures even more in line with our ambition to be the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals company. But structures, systems and charts do not always guarantee success. I always say the best systems or technologies cannot guarantee success, it’s people who create and enable success.  That’s where you fit in, with your energy and passion.  People are the heart of our business. Every generation of Aramcons has risen to the challenge.  You’re already contributing to your teams. Some of you are leading teams and soon, many more will be leading teams. Eventually, the people in this room will become Managers, Directors, VPs, SVPs, and EVPs of Aramco. One of you could even become CEO. It may be a little bit difficult to imagine right now. Some of you may be wondering what it will take to rise through the ranks.  I was once in your shoes—so allow me to share what I have learned along the way. First, don’t be afraid of taking risks or fear failure. Your generation is more of a risk taker than our generation. But still, I want to stress this point.  We are a company of researchers, engineers, professionals, and problem-solvers. Failure is not a shortcoming; it is an essential part of the process. Only with consistent practice and seeing what works and what doesn’t can we eventually discover what does.  Second, expose yourself to new ideas and new ways of working.  Here’s a few thoughts to consider on that topic. Learn to push yourself outside your comfort zone to expand your social skills and professional network. Sometimes, introverted people will decline to attend functions if they do not know the people attending. But there is a lot of value in meeting new people and being more inquisitive. That is how we can explore new perspectives than just those we are familiar or comfortable with.   Generally speaking, your generation is smarter than previous generations and more expressive in communicating feelings and emotions. While being expressive is a positive thing, it can become negative if you convey too much impatience and frustration. Our emotions need to be intelligent to support our goals. Be aware of your reactions, and learn how to manage your anger and disappointment.   I know there has been a lot of emphasis on IQ, but today we are also focusing on emotional intelligence and social intelligence. Many of you have untapped capabilities or ideas. Your ideas are valuable, and you’re passionate about them, However, if an idea doesn’t receive support, my advice to you: don’t take it personally. Learn how to adapt and how to build credibility of your ideas in a way that will make them receive more support and attention.  Aramco today is home to people of many different backgrounds and competencies. Your colleagues from another department or division from different backgrounds and competencies may have the answers to a question or issue you are stuck with. Collaboration is key! Also, taking leadership roles and initiating programs that serve your communities is important, and it will help you to develop and build new skills. And it’s consistent with Aramco’s social responsibility.   Third, be resilient. As in life, work is not always going to go your way. You will encounter setbacks—trust me.  For example, a project may not immediately achieve the desired results. Or you may not always have a fantastic connection with your boss or your colleagues. The true test of your character is how you respond, especially how you manage disappointment. Also, you need to have the ability to work through ambiguity or gray areas. Life isn’t all about black and white only. There are complexities.  Building this resilience will help you manage the ups and downs of work and life. And finally, never forget that your ability to do great things at work requires a life outside of work. Both are precious.  Several of those lessons have served me well across my career. I hope you find them useful as well.  The most important part of today is having a chance to hear from you, so I will stop here. I want to end with this: working at Aramco is a unique privilege. There are few companies whose work has the potential to impact nearly everyone on the planet. We are fortunate to have that opportunity.  I know you will make the most of it, and make your families and colleagues proud. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood morning ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure to join you here. Because when it comes to innovation, and re-defining the way people live and work, the world still thinks of Silicon Valley first. It is also good to be here in a week when we are reminded of the historic connections between Aramco and California. Next Monday, it will be 90 years since Standard Oil of California signed an agreement that enabled oil exploration in Saudi Arabia. This was the “seed” for the company that would eventually become Aramco. In fact, for many years, Aramco’s corporate headquarters was in San Francisco. Then there are the human connections, with Standard Oil’s explorers and engineers working closely with Saudi desert guides to find oil. And it was the intervention of a Stanford graduate, Max Steineke, that proved critical. He was Aramco’s first Chief Geologist, and an inspiration to his team. However, it was now 1938, and they had still not found oil in commercial quantities. He knew results were needed fast or they would be heading home. In fact, a telegram was on its way from California telling them to stop. But he believed in the mission, told his crew to drill deeper, and the first commercially viable oil started to flow at Dammam Well Number 7 in March that year, before the telegram arrived.     Many years later, the site would be renamed “Prosperity Well”.    And this is the inspiration behind our VC fund, Prosperity7 Ventures, which is inaugurating its new office in Palo Alto this week.   But all that lay ahead. Back in 1933, the concession agreement was a big leap of faith by both sides.    In VC language, we would call it a moonshot investment, that became a unicorn!   And I believe that much of our growth and success over 90 years is down to never losing that pioneering, can-do, start-up spirit, with Americans and Saudis coming together as one team.   It is how we approach today’s defining challenge of balancing our crucial role in global energy security with our equally crucial role in the global energy transition, while achieving our net zero ambition.    And you can bet that success will only be possible with human innovation and game-changing start-up technologies, powered by venture capital.   That is why we now have 3.5 billion dollars in VC programs. And Aramco Ventures reached 100 investments earlier this month.   They are in the top 10 of Climate 50’s annual ranking of the most impactful climate tech investors globally. But now we are taking our efforts to the next level.   For example, included in that 3.5 billion dollars is Prosperity7 Ventures.   This 1 billion dollar fund targets investments in disruptive technologies, across various sectors and industries beyond energy.   Which is why we are here. We want to connect visionaries in innovation and technology with the finance and start-ups that Silicon Valley is famous for.    We seek your help in further reducing our emissions and developing new, lower carbon energy, while meeting the world’s energy needs.   And we welcome the positive disruption that even more impactful partnerships could bring to the energy transition, shifting the focus from the theoretical “what” to the pragmatic “how” and the critical “how fast”. In short, we want to help exceptional entrepreneurs build transformative companies that address some of the toughest problems.    And we are backing it with all the strength and scale of Aramco so that big ideas can become big realities.   Ladies and Gentlemen, the energy transition gold rush is on!   The winners will be those who can truly deliver energy security, environmental sustainability, and a transition that works for the many, not the few.    And that will increasingly depend on the power of venture capital.   So we invite you to help us find and fund new unicorns.   Just as California did for us 90 years ago.   Thank you. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco has appointed Nasir K. Al-Naimi as President of its Upstream business, and Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani as President of its Downstream business, both reporting along with Aramco’s Executive Vice Presidents to the Company’s President & CEO. The newly created positions and appointments, approved by the Board of Directors, will be effective from July 1, 2023 and will replace the previous Upstream and Downstream Executive Vice President positions respectively. These appointments will help drive the Company’s long-term strategy across its global portfolio and value chain. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “I am delighted to announce these appointments, which demonstrate our emphasis on the upstream and downstream components of our business as Aramco continues to transform to meet the world’s energy demand. We expect this decision to help drive operational and financial performance, supporting our upstream capacity growth and our downstream expansion, together with our ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. We continue to identify ways to further optimize and innovate across the Aramco group, and I am confident these newly created roles will help us deliver on our objectives.” Mr. Al-Naimi has held the position of Upstream Executive Vice President since April 1, 2021, while Mr. Al Qahtani has served as Aramco’s Downstream Executive Vice President since September 13, 2020. Their biographies are available on the Aramco website here.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comCommenting on the results Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: “The results reflect Aramco’s continued high reliability, focus on cost and our ability to react to market conditions, as we generate strong cash flows and further strengthen the balance sheet. Reinforcing our commitment to maximize long-term shareholder value, we are also announcing our intention to introduce a mechanism for performance-linked dividends, in addition to the base dividend the Company currently distributes. “Our growth strategy remains on track and we made significant progress on the strategic expansion of our Downstream business during the quarter, announcing a key acquisition in the US as well as important investments and partnerships in China and South Korea. Our global Downstream strategy is gaining momentum, and we are leveraging cutting-edge technologies to increase our liquids-to-chemicals capacity and meet anticipated demand for petrochemical products. “We are also moving forward with our capacity expansion, and our long-term outlook remains unchanged as we believe oil and gas will remain critical components of the global energy mix for the foreseeable future. “Our intention is to continue to be a reliable energy supplier with the ability to provide more sustainable energy solutions, supporting efforts to achieve an orderly energy transition. By working to further reduce the carbon footprint of our operations, and adding new lower-carbon energy options to our portfolio, I am confident about the contributions we will make.” For more information, please see the 2023 Saudi Aramco First Quarter Interim Report.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Ltd. (Baosteel), the world’s leading steel conglomerate, and the Public Investment Fund (PIF) have signed a shareholders’ agreement to establish an integrated steel plate manufacturing complex in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  Subject to customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions, the joint venture complex is expected to be located in Ras al-Khair Industrial City, one of the four new Special Economic Zones recently announced by His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Prime Minister and Chairman of the Council of Economic and Development Affairs. The complex would bring together Aramco’s unrivaled energy and industrial services ecosystem, Baosteel’s advanced steel plate industry capability and PIF’s strong financial capabilities and investment expertise. It would be the first facility of its kind in the Kingdom and the GCC region, advancing the regional steel industry ecosystem. The project aims to enhance the domestic manufacturing sector through localizing the production of heavy steel plates, transferring knowledge and creating export opportunities. The facility is expected to have a steel plate production capacity of up to 1.5 million tons per year. It would also be equipped with a natural gas-based direct reduced iron (DRI) furnace and an electric arc furnace, which aims to reduce CO2 emissions from the steel-making process by up to 60% compared to a traditional blast furnace. The DRI plant would be compatible with hydrogen without the need for major equipment modifications, potentially reducing CO2 emissions by up to 90% in the future. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “The Kingdom’s first steel plate production facility is expected to enhance Saudi Arabia’s steel industry ecosystem and improve supply chain localization. Under Aramco’s flagship industrial investment program, Namaat, and supported by the government’s Shareek program, this joint venture is expected to create jobs and contribute to economic growth and diversification. This joint venture is also an example of bringing together expertise from other sectors. With Baosteel and PIF supporting in capacity building in the Kingdom’s industrial sector, Aramco aims to create additional value for our company and our partners.”  Yazeed A. Al-Humied, Deputy Governor and Head of MENA Investments at PIF, said: “PIF is diversifying the Saudi economy by unlocking opportunities and enabling key strategic sectors in the local market. This partnership aims at establishing an integrated steel plate manufacturing facility that will strengthen Saudi Arabia’s industrial development and enable its role as a supplier within the metal industry. It will also build on PIF’s mandate to establish new strategic partnerships locally and globally; localize technologies and knowledge; enable the private sector; and create more direct and indirect job opportunities in the local market. Since 2017, PIF has invested in 13 strategic sectors and established 77 new companies domestically.” Zou Jixin, Chairman of Baosteel, said: “This project is an active practice by Baosteel to explore lower-carbon paths for the steel industry, a major achievement in promoting the international development strategy of Baosteel. The project aims to contribute positively to the localization of the steel industry chain, job creation and local economic prosperity in Saudi Arabia.”  Mr. Chen Derong, Chairman of Baowu Group (the parent company of Baosteel), and Mr. Hu Wangming, President of Baowu Group, have further endorsed the project with full confidence. Saudi Arabia would be the project’s primary target market, with plans to export to the GCC and broader MENA region. It is expected to create new jobs and significantly reduce reliance on imported steel, serving customers in several strategic industrial sectors including pipelines, shipbuilding, rig manufacturing, offshore platform fabrication and tank and pressure vessel manufacturing. It also would aim to serve the construction, renewables and marine sectors. The investment aligns with PIF’s strategy to unlock the capabilities of promising sectors and strategically important industries that can drive the diversification of the local economy. It will support a number of PIF’s priority sectors that require steel plate and create a more resilient steel industry in the region. The steel plate complex is supported by the Kingdom’s Shareek program for large companies, which aims to foster greater private-public cooperation, create jobs and enhance the development of the Saudi economy by providing incentives for domestic investment. It also falls under Aramco’s Namaat program, which aims to establish strategic partnerships that drive Saudi Arabia’s economic, supply chain and industrial investment diversification and expansion.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen This is a historic day.  Today’s agreement to establish the Kingdom’s first integrated steel plate manufacturing complex further strengthens the ties between trusted partners, companies and countries. This facility in the newly announced Special Economic Zone in Ras Al Khair will bring together Aramco’s energy and industrial services supply chain network, the PIF’s world-class investment fund, and Baosteel’s advanced technology capabilities and know-how.   

We are able to establish this powerful and strong alliance thanks to the tremendous support we have received from the Government – in particular, from the Shareek program and the Ministry of Investment.  Their support helped us to overcome hurdles and paved the way for the agreement we are signing today. 

I would also like to thank the Ministry of Energy and the Ministry of Industry and Mineral Resources for their continued and unlimited support.  This project is another testament on how Vision 2030 and its associated programs are transforming the business ecosystem in making Saudi Arabia an even more attractive destination for local and international investors.

I also want to express my deep appreciation to Chairman Chen and President Hu of the China Baowu Group for their strong support in making this a reality. 
Indeed, this project represents another important milestone in strengthening our relationship with our partners from China.  A relationship that has moved well beyond just the sale of crude oil to much more expanded, diversified and strategic bilateral partnerships.  

The proof of that is today’s joint venture ceremony with Aramco making significant investments in China, and partners like Baosteel recognizing the investment appeal of Saudi Arabia.   

I am also pleased that this joint venture is being facilitated under Aramco’s Industrial Investment Program – “Namaat” – which enables diversification and localization in the Kingdom.  

It will also serve to contribute to Aramco’s IKTVA localization program, as the joint venture’s products will proudly be “SAUDI MADE”.

And it is expected to add approximately 1,800 direct and indirect jobs with a target of 80-percent Saudization. When fully operational, it is also projected to substitute annual imports estimated at more than $1.3 billion.

That said, this project is not about just meeting local demand. Over time, it will be able to export to global markets.

Crucially, this manufacturing facility will open the pathway for steel production with significantly lower carbon emissions in the future. 

By leveraging the latest technologies to make it hydrogen-ready, the facility is designed to eventually produce steel plates with up to 90-percent less CO2 emissions than the traditional production process. 

Indeed, for hard-to-abate sectors, this facility can potentially show the way forward for sustainability.  Just as steel is resilient and can withstand the test of time, so too can partnerships such as today’s joint venture between Baosteel, the Public Investment Fund and Aramco. 

Thank you. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comA first shipment of independently-certified low-carbon ammonia has arrived in Japan for use as fuel in power generation. It represents another milestone in the development of this lower-carbon energy solution.  The shipment is the result of a successful multiparty collaboration across the low-carbon ammonia value chain. The ammonia was produced by SABIC Agri-Nutrients (“SABIC AN”) with feedstock from Aramco, and sold by Aramco Trading Company to the Fuji Oil Company (“FOC”). Mitsui O.S.K. Lines (“MOL”) was tasked with shipping the liquid to Japan, then the low-carbon ammonia was transported to the Sodegaura Refinery for use in co-fired power generation, with technical support provided by Japan Oil Engineering Co (“JOE”).  The ammonia is categorized as low-carbon because CO2 from the associated manufacturing process was captured and utilized in downstream applications.  Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry has announced plans to increasingly harness ammonia as a fuel for power generation and for ship propulsion, as part of the country’s 2050 decarbonization goals. The low-carbon ammonia that reached Japan is part of broader efforts by Aramco and SABIC AN to establish a global supply network for this lower-carbon fuel. Aramco and SABIC AN aim to supply low-carbon ammonia to other players to meet their early demand needs.   Olivier Thorel, Aramco Senior Vice President of Chemicals, said: “This is another milestone that highlights the possibilities for low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia made from Aramco feedstock, with the potential to play a role in a lower-carbon future. Not only is low-carbon ammonia a means to transport lower-carbon hydrogen, it is an important energy source in its own right that can help decarbonize key sectors – including power generation for both utilities and industries. By dispatching this accredited low-carbon ammonia to Japan, we are helping chart a course for the development of this vital commodity.”  Abdulrahman Shamsaddin, SABIC AN CEO, said: “Our aim is to capitalize on this important milestone to grow and expand our positive contribution toward carbon neutrality. SABIC Agri-Nutrients made a public commitment not only to become carbon neutral by 2050 but also to collaborate with customers to help them achieve their net-zero emission targets. Customers in the energy, fertilizer and chemical sectors are looking for suppliers of lower-carbon hydrogen and ammonia. And we can meet their demand by leveraging our long-standing strengths across the value chain.” Shigeto Yamamoto, FOC Representative Director, President, said: “As Japan aims to achieve carbon neutrality by 2050, low-carbon ammonia is expected to be a next-generation fuel that can contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. In order to reduce CO2 emissions from our own operations, we have been working on co-firing ammonia, which is a by-product of the petroleum refining process, in the boiler at our Sodegaura Refinery, and we plan to burn low-carbon ammonia imported this time with the cooperation of our partners in the same boiler. We will continue these efforts to contribute to the construction of the ammonia supply chain.”  Mohammed Al-Mulhim, Aramco Trading Company CEO, said: “This landmark achievement is an example of excellent collaboration across businesses within Aramco, SABIC, Aramco Trading and our Japanese partners, and indeed a major boost for our sustainability efforts.” Toshiaki Tanaka, MOL Representative Director, Executive Vice President Executive Officer, said: “Ammonia is expected to be in great demand as a next-generation, clean energy source. Japan aims to achieve a carbon-neutral society by 2050, and we are very pleased to transport independently-certified low-carbon ammonia from Saudi Arabia to Japan. We are aiming for a track record of safe, reliable services across multiple transportation modes, in accordance with our customers’ needs. By combining accumulated knowledge and proactively participating in a broad range of value chains, we hope to contribute to the decarbonization of society.”   In 2020, Aramco collaborated with SABIC to dispatch the world’s first shipment of low-carbon ammonia to Japan in a demonstration project. Then, in 2022, Aramco and SABIC AN received the world’s first independent accreditation for low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia products. By the end of that year, the two companies had delivered the world’s first accredited low-carbon ammonia shipment to South Korea. The latest shipment to Japan brings this lower-carbon energy solution one step closer to the mainstream. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comA ground-breaking ceremony took place today for a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex being developed by Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Company (HAPCO). The joint venture between Aramco (30%), NORINCO Group (51%) and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group (19%) is developing the complex in the city of Panjin, in China’s Liaoning Province. On March 26, it was announced that the complex was expected to be fully operational by 2026. Aramco is expected to supply up to 210,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil feedstock to the facility.  Among those attending the ground-breaking ceremony were Abdulrahman Alharbi, Saudi Ambassador to China; Hao Peng, Secretary of the Provincial Party Committee and Chairman of the Standing Committee of the Liaoning Provincial People's Congress; Li Lecheng, Deputy Secretary of the Provincial Party Committee and Governor of the Liaoning Provincial Government; Liu Shiquan, Chairman of Norinco Group; Wang Bingsen, Secretary of the Panjin Municipal Party Committee; and Zou Wenchao, Vice President of Norinco Group. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Executive Vice President of Downstream, said in a speech at the event: “This complex is a cornerstone of our efforts to support a world-class, integrated Downstream sector here in China, as petrochemicals will play a vital role in our joint success. Once complete, we believe HAPCO will be a model for China’s modern petrochemicals industry moving forward, able to deliver lower carbon products, chemicals, and advanced materials.” On March 27, Aramco also announced it had signed definitive agreements to acquire a 10% interest in Shenzhen-listed Rongsheng Petrochemical Co. Ltd. for RMB 24.6 billion ($3.6 billion at current exchange rates). Combined, the partnership with Rongsheng and the HAPCO joint venture would see Aramco supply a total of 690,000 bpd of crude to high chemical conversion assets in China, in line with its strategy of converting four million bpd of crude to chemicals by 2030.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning and zao shang hao. I would like to express my gratitude to all in attendance who have played a significant part in making today’s important groundbreaking a reality.  Through the challenges and volatility impacting the global economy and energy sector over the past few years, this state-of-the-art project remained at the top of Aramco’s list of priorities. And while today is the culmination of a great effort among all parties and a time for celebration, it also signals a critical launching point for progress still to come.  Today we start placing further building blocks on a solid foundation already formed between us... one molded on trust, partnership and collaboration.  As Aramco President & CEO Amin Nasser said earlier this week, we aim to be an all-inclusive source of energy and chemicals for China’s long-term energy security and high-quality development.  And by working in close collaboration with our partners on this exciting project, not only will we build a safe and reliable business that creates jobs, but also creates value for all involved. Aramco is expanding its oil production capacity to ensure stable and reliable long-term supply to HAPCO and others in China. At the same time, we are reducing the already low carbon intensity of our oil production, while investing in other energy transition solutions and low carbon energy products. This aligns with our goals of delivering safe, accessible and reliable energy for the Chinese people while maintaining a leadership position in the energy transition. This project also aligns perfectly with Aramco’s long-term Downstream strategy in liquids to chemicals, as we aim to convert 4 million barrels per day of liquids to chemicals by the end of the decade.   And this complex is a cornerstone of our efforts to support a world-class, integrated Downstream sector here in China, as petrochemicals will play a vital role in our joint success.  Once complete, we believe HAPCO will be a model for China’s modern petrochemicals industry moving forward, able to deliver lower carbon products, chemicals, and advanced materials. Thank you all once again for joining us on this historic day and for your trusted partnership. And thank you once more to our gracious hosts here in Liaoning. I look forward to celebrating further project milestones in the near future.  Thank you all. Xie-xie.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, has signed definitive agreements to acquire a 10% interest in Shenzhen-listed Rongsheng Petrochemical Co. Ltd. (“Rongsheng”) for RMB 24.6 billion ($3.6 billion at current exchange rates), in a deal that would significantly expand its downstream presence in China. Through the strategic arrangement, Aramco would supply 480,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Arabian crude oil to Rongsheng affiliate Zhejiang Petroleum and Chemical Co. Ltd (ZPC), under a long-term sales agreement. Aramco Overseas Company (“AOC”), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aramco, will acquire the interest in Rongsheng.  Among other assets, Rongsheng owns a 51% equity interest in ZPC, which in turn owns and operates the largest integrated refining and chemicals complex in China with a capacity to process 800,000 bpd of crude oil and to produce 4.2 million metric tons of ethylene per year.  Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Executive Vice President of Downstream, said: “This announcement demonstrates Aramco’s long-term commitment to China and belief in the fundamentals of the Chinese petrochemicals sector. It is an important acquisition for Aramco in a key market, supporting our growth ambitions and advancing our liquids to chemicals strategy.  It also promises to secure a reliable supply of essential crude to one of China’s most important refiners.”   Li Shuirong, Rongsheng Chairman, said: “This strategic co-operation will take our long-term friendship and mutual trust to a new level, and paves the way for a bright future for the high-quality development of the world’s petrochemicals industry. I believe that Aramco’s involvement will greatly help Rongsheng implement its petrochemical growth strategy.” The investment would anchor an important association between Aramco, Rongsheng and ZPC, which operates one of the world’s most state-of-the-art chemical conversion assets.  The transaction involves an off-market secondary sale of Rongsheng shares by majority shareholder Zhejiang Rongsheng Holding Group, with potential for future collaboration between the parties in trading, refining, chemicals production and technology licensing. The transaction is expected to close by the end of 2023, and is subject to regulatory approvals. It follows the announcement on March 26 that the Aramco joint venture, Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Company (HAPCO), planned to start construction of a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in northeast China in the second quarter of 2023. Aramco, which has a 30% stake in HAPCO, will supply up to 210,000 bpd of crude oil feedstock to the complex.  Combined, the partnership with Rongsheng and the HAPCO joint venture would see Aramco supply a total of 690,000 bpd of crude to high chemical conversion assets.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and joint venture partners NORINCO Group and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group plan to start construction of a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in northeast China. Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Company (HAPCO), a joint venture between Aramco (30%), NORINCO Group (51%) and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group (19%), is developing the complex that will combine a 300,000 barrels per day refinery and a petrochemical plant with annual production capacity of 1.65 million metric tons of ethylene and 2 million metric tons of paraxylene.  Construction is due to start in the second quarter of 2023 after the project secured the required administrative approvals. It is expected to be fully operational by 2026. Aramco will supply up to 210,000 bpd of crude oil feedstock to the complex, which is being built in the city of Panjin, in China’s Liaoning province. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Executive Vice President of Downstream, said: “This important project will support China’s growing demand across fuel and chemical products. It also represents a major milestone in our ongoing downstream expansion strategy in China and the wider region, which is an increasingly significant driver of global petrochemical demand. “ Zou Wenchao, NORINCO Group Deputy General Manager, said: “This large-scale refinery and petrochemical complex is a key project of NORINCO Group to implement and realize the joint development of the high-quality Belt and Road initiative, promote industrial restructuring, and enhance the oil and petrochemical sector to become stronger, better and larger. It will play an important role in deepening economic and trade cooperation between China and Saudi Arabia, and achieving common development and prosperity.”  Jia Fei, Panjin Xincheng Chairman of the Board, said: "The project is of great significance for Panjin to promote increasing chemicals and specialty products, strengthening integration of the refining and chemical industry. It is a symbolic project for Panjin as it seeks to accelerate the development of an important national petrochemical and fine chemical industry base.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, xià wǔ  hǎo, and good afternoon.  It is wonderful to be back in Beijing with the dear friends and close partners we have missed so much. We reunite in the shadow of Covid, conflict in Europe, and global economic headwinds, including an energy crisis.  Adding to the complexity is the global energy transition, which desperately needs some realism and clarity. So we welcome the pragmatic thoughts of His Excellency President Xi on this.  We agree with his view that conventional energy sources and alternatives will have to work in parallel for decades to come. We also agree that China cannot achieve its climate change mitigation goals at the expense of energy security.  And his principle of “building the new before discarding the old” really struck a chord with us. In fact, Aramco is already working on three major strategies to support China’s energy and development priorities with these  realities in mind.  First, expanding our oil production capacity by a million barrels per day to 13 million barrels by 2027 will strengthen China’s long-term energy security. So will increasing our gas production by more than fifty percent by 2030, which should release an additional million barrels of oil per day for export. Second, we are determined to further reduce the already low carbon intensity of our oil production, as well as our methane intensity. We are also working on solutions like advanced carbon capture and storage, and circular carbon economy technologies.  Furthermore, we recently launched a one and a half billion dollar venture capital sustainability fund to invest in advanced technologies that will help all of us move closer to a net-zero emissions future. China’s venture capital space offers important investment opportunities to stimulate the technology development and innovation required. Meanwhile, since cars with conventional engines are likely to dominate roads for quite some time, we are developing more efficient and lower emission engines and hybrid systems. That is why we have signed a letter of intent to be part of a new entity being created by Geely and Renault. All these initiatives can help China meet its emissions reduction goals. Third, we are steadily adding lower carbon energy to our portfolio, especially blue hydrogen and blue ammonia, electrofuels, and renewables. And we are evaluating entry into liquified natural gas as well. As the energy transition evolves, there is also the critical issue of Materials Transition.  Reducing emissions from hard-to-abate sectors like steel and aluminum, cement and concrete is essential to China’s high-quality development. We are partnering with Baosteel to produce steel plates in Saudi Arabia with a lower carbon footprint.  In fact, this is a great example of the multiple and highly attractive opportunities for Chinese companies in the Kingdom in a variety of energy and non-energy areas. More broadly, we are developing advanced, more sustainable materials such as those based on polymers and carbon to complement conventional ones, while reducing their high cost. We have also launched a new center of excellence for non-metallic technologies called NEXCEL, right here in Beijing. In other words, we want to be an all-inclusive source of energy and chemicals for China’s long-term energy security and China’s high- quality development. That is why we are doubling down on China’s energy supply, including new lower carbon products; chemicals; and advanced materials, all supported by emissions reduction technologies. In particular, we see a major win-win opportunity to build a world-leading, integrated downstream sector in China, with special emphasis on the high conversion of liquids directly into chemicals as part of our broader liquid-to-chemicals business expansion plans. Indeed, today we are signing definitive agreements with North Huajin Chemical and Panjin Xincheng to begin construction on a state-of-the-art integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in Liaoning Province. Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, Aramco’s view of the energy future, and the most realistic path to get there, closely aligns with China’s. And, like China, we think in decades not quarters. That is why your long-term energy security and your high-quality development are among our highest priorities, to the horizon and even beyond. Thank you, and xiè xie. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco has signed a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Samsung Electronics Co., Ltd., which sets forth preliminary plans for a strategic collaboration that would localize an industrial 5G technology ecosystem, starting with private networks, in Saudi Arabia. The proposed collaboration aims to contribute to the digital transformation of various industrial sectors in Saudi Arabia, such as energy, petrochemical, and manufacturing, by leveraging advanced 4G and 5G technologies capable of providing secure, fast and reliable communications to satisfy business critical requirements of industries. The companies intend to help realize advanced industrial 5G use cases with mission critical communications. It follows the recent launch of Aramco Digital Company, which aims to accelerate digital transformation within the Kingdom, and the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region.  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, and international contract logistics provider DHL Supply Chain have announced the signing of a shareholders’ agreement for a new Procurement and Logistics Hub in Saudi Arabia, to enhance supply chain efficiency and sustainability. It would be the region’s first such hub catering to customers in the industrial, energy, chemical and petrochemical sectors. The joint venture aims to be operational in 2025 and provide reliable end-to-end integrated procurement and supply chain services for companies across the industrial, energy, chemical and petrochemical sectors. The joint venture would initially focus on Saudi Arabia, with aspirations to expand across the MENA region. Aramco’s preeminent energy and industrial supply chain ecosystem and DHL’s world-class logistics expertise are expected to enable the joint venture to add value in meeting customers’ supply chain purchasing, warehouse and inventory management, transportation and reverse logistics needs.  The aim is for the joint venture to achieve industry best practices in procurement and supply chain management, as well as the deployment of more sustainable supply chain, transport and warehousing solutions.  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “This partnership brings together two industry leaders, each with long and storied histories. By combining the exceptional energy, chemicals and industrial supply chain ecosystem of Aramco with the world-class shipping and logistics expertise of DHL, we aim to enable the Procurement and Logistics Hub joint venture to serve as a one-stop hub for customers’ supply chain needs. We anticipate that it will not only advance the economic goals of our two companies but also accelerate growth across Saudi Arabia and the MENA region.”  Oscar de Bok, DHL Supply Chain CEO, said: "We are extremely excited to announce the signing of this agreement with Aramco. Through it, DHL intends to foster its business operations and logistics networks throughout Saudi Arabia and the MENA region while expanding our industrial footprint. By working in partnership with Aramco, we aim to provide regional and multinational businesses from these sectors access to a robust international logistics network, fostering positive economic growth while promoting sustainable activities." Through state-of-the-art technologies, the joint venture is expected to allow businesses to reduce costs, maximize efficiency and harness digitalization. It represents the culmination of several years of cooperation between the two companies, and aims to transform inventory and logistics management, expand business, create jobs and enable economic diversification in Saudi Arabia and the MENA region. The formation of the joint venture is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood morning ladies and gentlemen, and welcome. It is an honor to help inaugurate this exciting new joint venture between two titans of industry: Aramco, the world’s preeminent integrated energy and chemicals company and DHL, the global leader in shipping and logistics. I want to begin by expressing my gratitude to the nominated CEO of Deutsche Post-DHL Tobias Meyer, and DHL Supply Chain CEO Oscar de Bok. This ceremony is a testament to your leadership and vision. I also want to acknowledge all of the people from across both companies who have worked hard to bring that vision to life. Your collaboration has made today possible. Aramco and DHL have long and storied histories. Combined, we have close to one hundred and fifty years of experience across our respective industries. Now, we are coming together to create a world class procurement and logistics hub—one that will provide comprehensive supply-chain services for the energy, chemical, and industrial sectors of the Kingdom and broader MENA region.  Aramco has an exceptional energy, chemicals, and industrial supply chain ecosystem. DHL has unparalleled shipping and logistics capacity. The procurement and logistics hub will harness these qualities, leveraging the unique expertise of two market-makers to offer customers a one-stop-shop for their supply chain needs. By providing a full range of industry-tailored services under one roof and leveraging economies of scale, the hub will be an efficient and cost-effective option. By utilizing the latest digital technologies, it will strengthen productivity and enhance operations. And by offering more visibility on emissions across the supply chain, it will help to advance our shared goals of a more environmentally sustainable future. Customers will also benefit from the hub’s location at the heart of the Kingdom in the middle of a dramatic transformation.   There are exciting changes underway all across Saudi Arabia, and each day presents a new opportunity. In formalizing this joint venture, Aramco and DHL have seized one of those opportunities. Years from now, I am confident we will look back and regard today as an important milestone, not just for our two companies, but also for the Kingdom’s continued development and that of the whole region. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, and Linde Engineering, a global leader in the production and processing of gases, announced that they have signed an agreement to jointly develop a new ammonia cracking technology. The collaboration between the two companies will combine Linde Engineering and Aramco’s experience and capabilities in industrial research and development, lower-carbon hydrogen, and ammonia cracking technology.  A potential differentiator of this new technology is the ammonia cracking catalyst, jointly developed by Aramco and the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), which will be evaluated against other catalysts. Through this agreement, Aramco and Linde Engineering plan to build a demonstration plant in northern Germany to showcase this new ammonia cracking technology. Linde Engineering intends to offer this ammonia cracking technology to current and new customers, creating new commercial opportunities within the global lower-carbon energy supply chain. The emerging lower-carbon ammonia business may prove to be key in bridging the gap between a country’s domestic renewable energy production capacity and total energy demand.  Ahmad Al-Khowaiter, Senior Vice President and Chief Technology Officer at Aramco, said: “This agreement is part of our ongoing technology and business development efforts to establish a commercially viable lower-carbon hydrogen supply chain. We believe the advanced ammonia cracking technology we are co-developing with Linde Engineering will play a key role in realizing our objectives.” John van der Velden, Senior Vice President Global Sales & Technology at Linde Engineering, said: “Effective ammonia cracking technology supports the world’s urgent need for decarbonization. By completing the missing link in the export chain, cleaner energy can be shipped from regions with high renewable and clean energy potential to those with more limited resources. We look forward to working closely with Aramco to develop and commercialize this important technology, creating new business opportunities for Linde Engineering and Aramco.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comOhayou gozaimasu! Good morning everyone, and welcome. I am delighted to join you here in Tokyo, one of the world’s most dynamic cities. And what a time to visit. With the cherry trees on the verge of blossoming, I expect we will soon see the city and surrounding areas at their most beautiful. I want to begin today by expressing my gratitude to the Japan Cooperation Center for Petroleum and Sustainable Energy for co-hosting this event, and for the invitation to share my thoughts on the global energy transition.  It is a real treat to speak to a room full of researchers, policymakers, and problem-solvers. This is an audience who are undeterred by the challenges ahead and who have both the will and capacity to chart a path forward.  I know that this is also an audience that regularly attends conferences, and so I suspect you are all a bit weary of hearing the phrase “this is a timely event.” But at the risk of repeating a cliché, ladies and gentlemen, this really is an especially timely event. Allow me to set the scene. Like the cherry blossoms around us, the global economy is reawakening from a period of slumber. The pandemic is behind us, and travel, trade, and manufacturing activity continue to roar back. Along with that resurgence has come a resurgence in demand for the steady supply of energy to make it all possible. Unfortunately, supply has struggled to meet this growing demand, and high prices, painful for consumer and business alike, are the outcome. Suddenly, we are in an energy crisis. So, how did we get here? For too long, governments and investors indulged in overly optimistic assessments of how quickly non-carbon alternative energies could be scaled, and what share of demand these alternatives were prepared to meet. Under these misperceptions, investments in oil and gas were disincentivized and plummeted by around one third over the past decade. The chronic underinvestment resulted in diminished production capacity and a dwindling global energy supply. That was manageable during the pandemic, when economic activity slowed down. But that is no longer the case, and alternatives have not come online fast enough to ease the strain. The tragic conflict in Ukraine has further compounded the problem. Now, the oil and gas industry is scrambling to quickly ramp up production, with the encouragement of policy makers, after years of being discouraged by those same policy makers from doing just that! Amid these developments, many have awakened to what I suspect most of you here today have long understood, that the hydrocarbon is expected to be a part of the global energy mix for decades to come. There are few other viable options to affordably and reliably meet the full breadth of global energy needs right now and the foreseeable future. But it is well-understood that we cannot simply drill and refine our way out of the crisis. The climate is in peril, and a global net-zero future will help avoid catastrophe.   Which brings us to this timely gathering. We are here today to help answer an urgent question: how can we meet ever-increasing demand, ensure a steady supply of affordable energy, and also achieve our net-zero ambitions? I will manage your expectations by saying at the outset that I do not have all the answers. What I do know is that there is no single solution. We will need to harness an array of technologies, some proven, others in development, to reach our goals. As we assess the options before us, it is critical that we be “technology agnostic.” We cannot prematurely pick winners and losers. That approach is what landed us in this crisis to begin with. There is a saying in English: “when all you have is a hammer, everything looks like a nail.” It is a reminder that if you focus too intently on any one option, you risk ignoring other potential solutions.    At COP 26, I was encouraged to hear Prime Minister Fumio Kishida pledge that “Japan will take advantage of all available options of technologies” in its pursuit of a net-zero energy supply. That is the right approach to achieve the balance of efficient, effective, and affordable. If we let science guide us, we can develop more appropriate tools for problems that our hammers alone may be poorly suited to solve. After all, what works to power personal transport more sustainably may not be applicable in heavy industry or aviation. What makes sense in an urban environment may not work in a rural setting. We need an à la carte menu of technologies for every context. At the same time, we cannot rely exclusively on scientists and engineers to perfect these new technologies. Innovation does not occur in a vacuum, nor does it happen overnight. The right mix of policy and regulations will incentivize research and spur demand. Engaging our industry can help set clear objectives and tap into our unique expertise. Before there is widespread adoption, consumers will need to be equipped with the knowledge to make informed decisions. That means that advancing the technological solutions to meet the different net-zero ambitions will require the cooperation of all stakeholders. Given the magnitude of emissions reductions that we need to achieve, such cooperation will need to happen in parallel around the world. Japan’s leadership will be critical on the global stage. The technological capacity here is astounding, and there is a proud history of introducing paradigm-shifting technology across multiple industries. Already, Japan is pioneering many exciting lower-carbon solutions, technologies like more efficient and more sustainable fuel cells, hydrogen-powered engines, and low-carbon synthetic fuels. And of course, Japan was the recipient of Aramco’s first shipment of blue ammonia, which was subsequently used in lower-carbon power generation, a potent demonstration of both hydrogen’s potential and how international collaboration can advance our shared goals. Japan can lead in other ways as well. Just as important as developing new technology is showcasing a national model for an orderly energy transition. Prime Minister Kishida’s remarks at COP 26 were an important signal to others. The government’s Sixth Strategic Energy Plan, with its pragmatic approach to a net-zero future, is another. As Japan moves forward with implementation of that strategy, everyone here today should consider how they can leverage their unique capacities in support.   I would like to close here today by highlighting a few innovative projects Aramco is engaged in to advance a more sustainable, climate-conscious, and energy efficient future. First and foremost, we remain focused on reducing the upstream carbon intensity of our core operations. We do so through a number of channels, like capturing the natural gas that would otherwise be flared and using it for domestic power generation through our Master Gas System. Or by harnessing artificial intelligence to ensure maximum efficiency across our systems, which reduces energy waste. Since 2015, we have also operated a carbon capture and sequestration project at our Uthmaniyah field, which has the capacity to capture up to 800,000 tonnes of CO2 per year.  As a result of these and other initiatives, Aramco’s upstream carbon intensity is among the lowest in the industry, all while maintaining our cost advantage. However, these efforts alone might not be enough to meet our 2050 net-zero ambitions. That is why we continue to research and develop technologies with the potential to reduce or eliminate carbon emissions entirely. Technologies like hydrogen, which has the potential to serve as a fuel source for power-intensive transport and in hard-to-abate industries where electrification may not be viable or cost-effective. Or CCUS technology, which the International Energy Agency has identified as essential to meeting global net-zero goals. I mentioned earlier our Uthmaniyah field; with the knowledge gained from that project, Aramco is currently working with others to establish a hub near Jubail on the Kingdom’s eastern coast that aims to capture and store 9 million metric tons of CO2 per year–and not just ours, with over a third of that CO2 coming from other sources. We are also actively developing low-carbon synthetic fuels for use in internal combustion engines. Not only could that provide a potential 70 to 90 percent reduction in CO2 over conventional fuels, but it could prove a viable option in sectors where electrification and other alternatives are not yet practical. This work on more sustainable fuels already has real world applications: earlier this month, Aramco supplied fuels with fifty-five percent sustainable components for use in F2 and F3 races and, in the future, we aim to introduce low-carbon synthetic components to these race fuels, perhaps paving the way for their eventual use in personal transport. One last pertinent area of Aramco’s research and development I would like to highlight is our work on polymer- and carbon-based materials. We believe that these advanced materials have potential as a productive use for captured carbon, and could eventually reduce the demand for steel, concrete, and other conventional materials whose production and use is responsible for a significant share of global emissions. Indeed, global net-zero ambitions will be hard to meet without a Materials Transition. These are just a few of the projects that we are working on at Aramco. We think that they have the potential to reduce emissions while supporting the steady supply of more affordable energy the world needs as it transitions to a net-zero future. There are, of course, other promising ideas and technologies, many of which are being pioneered by people in the room here today. Each merits full consideration, and the next two days are an opportunity to share, discuss, and debate. More importantly, I hope this symposium also paves the way for collaboration. The task ahead is too big for any one person, company, or country. Reaching our net-zero ambitions will require all of us to work together in pursuit of a more sustainable, climate-conscious future. Let us use the inspiration of Spring in the air this week to deliver that vision. Thank you. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its full-year 2022 financial results, reporting a record net income of $161.1 billion — its highest annual profits as a listed company. Aramco also declared a fourth quarter dividend of $19.5 billion, to be paid in the first quarter of 2023. The results were underpinned by stronger crude oil prices, higher volumes sold and improved margins for refined products, while the Company continues to strengthen its oil and gas production capacity, as well as its downstream portfolio, to meet anticipated future demand.  Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: “Aramco delivered record financial performance in 2022, as oil prices strengthened due to increased demand around the world. We also continued to focus on our long-term strategy, building both capacity and capability across the value chain with the aim of addressing energy security and sustainability.  “Given that we anticipate oil and gas will remain essential for the foreseeable future, the risks of underinvestment in our industry are real — including contributing to higher energy prices. To leverage our unique advantages at scale and be part of the global solution, Aramco has embarked on the largest capital spending program in its history, and last year our capex rose by 18.0% to reach $37.6 billion.  “Our focus is not only on expanding oil, gas and chemicals production, but also investing in new lower-carbon technologies with potential to achieve additional emission reductions — in our own operations and for end users of our products.”  Financial Highlights Aramco’s net income increased by 46.5% to a record $161.1 billion in 2022, compared to $110.0 billion in 2021. The increase in net income reflects stronger crude oil prices, higher volumes sold and improved margins for refined products. Q4 2022 net income is in line with analyst estimates, excluding certain non-cash items of around $3.3 billion. Free cash flow* reached a record $148.5 billion in 2022, compared to $107.5 billion in 2021. Aramco continues to emphasize a strong balance sheet and its gearing ratio at the end of 2022 was -7.9%, compared to 12.0% at the end of 2021.  Aramco declared a dividend of $19.5 billion for the fourth quarter, to be paid in Q1 2023. This represents a 4.0% increase compared to the previous quarter, aligned with the Company’s dividend policy aiming to deliver a sustainable and progressive dividend. Additionally, the Board of Directors also recommended the distribution of bonus shares to eligible shareholders in the amount of one share for every 10 shares held, subject to required Extraordinary General Assembly and regulatory approvals. Capital expenditure in 2022 was $37.6 billion, an increase of 18.0% from 2021. Aramco expects 2023 capital expenditure to be approximately $45.0 billion to $55.0 billion including external investments, with capex increasing until around the middle of the decade. Aramco also completed an energy infrastructure deal in February 2022 resulting in a consortium of investors, led by BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana Investment Company, acquiring a 49% stake in a newly formed subsidiary, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company (AGPC), for $15.5 billion. Operational Highlights In 2022, Aramco’s average hydrocarbon production was 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent per day (mmboed), including 11.5 million barrels per day (mmbpd) of total liquids.  Aramco continued its strong track record of supply reliability by delivering crude oil and other products with 99.9% reliability in 2022. It was the third year running that Aramco achieved this level of reliability.  Upstream continues to execute its growth plans to promote long-term productivity of Saudi Arabia’s reservoirs and is proceeding with implementing the Government’s mandate to increase Aramco’s crude oil MSC to 13.0 mmbpd by 2027.  Construction and engineering activities for the Marjan and Berri crude oil increments continue to progress, and are expected to add production capacity of 300,000 barrels per day (bpd) and 250,000 bpd, respectively, by 2025.  The Zuluf crude oil increment is in the engineering phase, and is expected to provide a central facility to process a total of 600,000 bpd of crude oil from the Zuluf field by 2026. Construction activities are also continuing on the Dammam development project, which is expected to add 25,000 bpd and 50,000 bpd of crude oil by 2024 and 2027, respectively. Compression projects at the Haradh and Hawiyah fields commenced commissioning activities and full capacity is expected to be reached in 2023. Construction at the Hawiyah Unayzah Gas Reservoir Storage, the first underground natural gas storage project in the Kingdom, is at an advanced stage and has commenced injection activities. The program is designed to provide up to 2.0 billion standard cubic feet per day of natural gas for reintroduction into the Kingdom’s Master Gas System by 2024.  Aramco announced its final investment decision to participate in the development of a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in northeast China. The project presents an opportunity for Aramco to supply up to 210,000 bpd of crude oil feedstock to the complex. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. In August, Aramco signed an equity purchase agreement to acquire Valvoline Inc.’s global products business (Valvoline Global Products) for $2.65 billion. The strategic acquisition, which closed in March 2023, will complement Aramco’s line of premium branded lubricant products, optimize its global base oils production capabilities, and expand Aramco’s own R&D activities and partnerships with original equipment manufacturers.   In November, three transactions with Polish refiner and fuel retailer PKN ORLEN were completed, expanding Aramco’s presence in the European downstream sector. As part of the transaction, the Company acquired equity stakes of 30% in a 210,000 bpd refinery in Gdańsk; 100% in an associated wholesale business; and 50% in a jet fuel marketing joint venture. Aramco and TotalEnergies made a final investment decision in December to construct a large petrochemical complex in Saudi Arabia. It will enable an existing SATORP refinery to advance Aramco’s liquids-to-chemicals strategy. The investment decision is subject to customary closing conditions and approvals. In October, Aramco established a $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund to invest in technology needed to support a stable and inclusive energy transition. The fund plans to invest in technologies that support the Company’s announced Scope 1 and Scope 2 net-zero 2050 ambition in its wholly-owned operational assets, as well as development of new lower-carbon fuels.  In November, a joint development agreement between Aramco and the Ministry of Energy was signed to construct one of the largest planned carbon capture and storage hubs in the world in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, with a storage capacity of up to 9 million tonnes of carbon dioxide a year by 2027. ---
Aramco will discuss its full-year financial results for 2022 in an audio webcast on March 13, 2023 at 3.30pm Riyadh / 12.30pm London / 8.30am New York. The webcast will be available at www.aramco.com/investors.
*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSouth Korean President Yoon and Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser today attended the groundbreaking ceremony for the $7 billion Shaheen petrochemical project in Ulsan, South Korea.  Ministers and senior officials from both countries also attended the milestone event. The Shaheen project, which was announced in November 2022, is being developed by Aramco affiliate S-OIL and is a key part of Aramco’s regional crude to chemicals strategy. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “We are deeply honored by the presence of His Excellency President Yoon at this historic groundbreaking ceremony. Shaheen is among Aramco’s biggest international downstream investments, representing a significant and sizeable step forward in our liquids-to-chemicals expansion and another major milestone in further strengthening our presence in Korea.” Shaheen is Aramco’s biggest investment in Korea to date and is expected to be one of the largest integrated steam crackers in the world. It is also the first major commercial deployment of Aramco’s thermal crude to chemicals technology, that was developed in collaboration with Lummus Technology.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellency, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. On behalf of Aramco, it is my privilege and pleasure to welcome you to this historic ground-breaking ceremony.  We are deeply honored to be joined by His Excellency, President Yoon.  The state-of-the-art petrochemicals complex that will rise on this site in the coming months is historic for a number of reasons. For starters, when complete it is expected to be one of the largest integrated refining petrochemical steam crackers in the world. For Aramco, Shaheen is also the single biggest investment we have made in Korea to date, far exceeding the more than $4 billion that was invested in phase one. And this development represents a significant and sizeable step forward in our strategy to expand our liquids-to-chemicals business.  For us, this complex is also historic because it is the first large-scale, commercial deployment of Aramco’s thermal crude-to-chemicals technology. Technology that aims to increase chemical yield with less energy intensity. When completed in 2026, this complex will produce a number of important by-products that are the building blocks for thousands of items that millions of people around the world need in their daily lives.  In other words, once this complex is up and running, it will help showcase another step in the global energy transition to a lower-carbon future through more efficient and more sustainable production processes. As you have heard, Shaheen also aims to have significant and highly positive economic effects in terms of jobs created as well as economic value generated. Now, I should add that our decision to invest $7 billion in Ulsan at this time and on this project was based on a number of factors. First and foremost is the fact that the global petrochemical landscape is evolving rapidly and growth in demand is expected to accelerate. And while future trends typically dictate such decisions, our past history of success with S-Oil was also a key consideration. Indeed, Aramco sees S-Oil as a model of operational excellence. In the more than 30 years since Aramco made its initial investment in S-Oil, the company has grown to become a world-class integrated refining and chemicals producer. Korea is also an excellent place to do business due to the welcoming nature of this country, the pragmatic approach of policymakers here and the innovation demonstrated by Korean industry and by the people of Korea. The close relationship that exists between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Republic of Korea was another contributing factor. As you know, our countries have a relationship that spans decades, all the way back to the first shipment of Saudi crude oil to Korea in 1969. A relationship that today goes well beyond oil, refining and petrochemicals. A relationship that now includes hydrogen, with the world’s first commercial shipment of blue ammonia arriving here from Saudi Arabia last December.    And it is a relationship that has turned into a partnership, which continues to grow, with further collaborations expected in multiple sectors from advanced industries to logistics to smart cities.   Simply put, as this project we are breaking ground for today clearly illustrates, we have a relationship that has and continues to be truly mutually beneficial.  And for this, we say: Gamsahamnida. Once again, we are also extremely honored to have Your Excellency at this event today.  Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco has signed a letter of intent to become a potential minority stakeholder in a new powertrain technology company (PWT), to be established by Geely Holding Group (Geely Holding), Geely Automobile Holdings Limited (Geely Auto HK.0175) — collectively referred to as “Geely” — and Renault Group. The new company will be dedicated to internal combustion and hybrid powertrain technologies. Aramco’s investment would support the growth of the company, and contribute to key research and development across synthetic fuels solutions and next-gen hydrogen technologies. It is expected that Geely and Renault Group retain equal equity stakes in the new independent entity. With a global network of 17 powertrain plants and five R&D centers across three continents, the planned company is intended to be a standalone global supplier with a combined capacity of over five million internal combustion, hybrid and plug-in hybrid engines and transmissions per year, supplying over 130 countries and regions.  Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Executive Vice President of Downstream, said: “This letter of intent represents a new milestone in our ongoing commitment to transportation technologies and presents a platform to support Aramco’s research and development in engine innovation. Our planned collaboration with Geely and Renault would support the development of powertrains across the automotive industry, and aligns with our broader efforts across our global operations.” Luca de Meo, CEO of Renault Group, said: “This partnership with Aramco will raise our joint powertrain company together with Geely Group to the next level and give it a head start in the race towards ultra-low-emissions ICE powertrain technology. Aramco’s entry brings to the table unique know-how that will help develop breakthrough innovations in the fields of synthetic fuels and hydrogen.” Daniel Li, CEO of Geely Holding Group, said: “We welcome Aramco in joining us in the creation of a globally leading sustainable powertrain company. The proposed investment by Aramco represents recognition from global industry leaders in the PWT’s future business prospects and vision for pioneering low and carbon-free fuels such as methanol and hydrogen.” Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (‘Aramco’) has completed the acquisition of the Valvoline Inc. (NYSE: VVV) global products business (‘Valvoline Global Operations’) for $2.65 billion, through one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.   With this acquisition, which follows the signing of an equity purchase agreement by the companies announced on Aug. 1, 2022, Aramco accelerates its aim to become one of the world’s preeminent integrated, branded lubricants players.  Aramco will now own the Valvoline brand with respect to the products business, and Valvoline Inc. will own the Valvoline brand with respect to its retail services business. Aramco and Valvoline Inc. plan to work together to continue to grow the Valvoline brand equity globally. Valvoline Global Operations, which will continue to be headquartered in Lexington Kentucky, is a worldwide leader in automotive and industrial solutions, creating future-ready products and best-in-class services for partners around the globe.  Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Executive Vice President of Downstream, said: “This acquisition will advance our international lubricants growth strategy, and leverage our global base oils production and R&D capabilities. It also provides an exciting opportunity to strengthen our relationship with original equipment manufacturers worldwide by extending the reach of Valvoline Global Operations as a preeminent company among multi-national lubricant brands, a position it has proudly held for over a century and a half.  We look forward to welcoming the Valvoline Global Operations employees and brand, one of the most recognized names in the industry, into the Aramco family.  At the same time, we expect Aramco’s global network to provide an unmatched foundation for this historic brand’s next chapter of development.” Sam Mitchell, Valvoline Inc. CEO, said: “It is a historic day for our 157-year-old brand. With the sale of the global products business to Aramco, each business can now better focus on future growth. Today, Valvoline Inc. becomes a pure-play, automotive services company with a right-sized capital structure and enhanced capital allocation. Additionally, Valvoline Inc.  expects to offer significant capital returns to our shareholders through equity buybacks over the next 18 months. All this combined allows us to focus our efforts on and further strengthen our brand as a premier auto after-market services provider.” The acquisition complements Aramco’s growing presence in the premium branded lubricants market space and opens opportunities to enhance the position of the 150+ year-old name globally, providing a foundation for future growth and downstream portfolio integration.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Thank you for the invitation to speak here in the beautiful Kingdom of Bahrain to open a conference of thoughtful discussion, ideas, and learning. We come together this week at a time of both great challenge and opportunity for our industry. In the five years since the last GDA Downstream Conference, the energy industry has grappled with a global pandemic, heightened scrutiny, and immense pressures for change. The conflict in Ukraine has only magnified the focus. The struggle of finding the correct balance between the energy trilemma of security, affordability, and environmental sustainability, remains top of mind for all of us. Unfortunately, with energy security and affordability often taking a backseat these days.   As a result, there continues to be chronic underinvestment in the energy industry. The market continues to be stretched thin due to lagging oil supply capacity expansion and globally, we do not yet have consensus on the future role of oil and gas and remain without a robust and realistic transition plan. These issues threaten to be further accelerated because despite concerns about a recession for some, many more analysts are predicting an economic rebound as 2023 continues with global consumption expected to ramp up this year and beyond. To ensure proper balance, at Aramco, we believe one single solution or path forward will not work. In truth, realistic transition plans need to be developed that address the energy trilemma, and give the world a realistic chance of meeting climate protection goals. Despite all of this change and external pressure, the Downstream organizations represented in this room continue to lead the way making the most of our opportunities to adapt, while continuing to provide the energy the world requires. Looking ahead, I believe we all need to continue to seize opportunities bringing upon a new era for Downstream which aligns so perfectly with this conference’s theme of “Turning Points” and “Capitalizing on Transformation”. As the world struggles to find the correct path forward, I am encouraged by what I continue to see from GDA organizations as innovation and technology are taking Downstream to the next level. From renewables, to chemicals, to sustainable fuels, to decarbonized engine. We have the smartest minds in the world right here solving the globe’s most complex challenges. For Aramco, we are incredibly proud to be host sponsors of such an amazing gathering this week. We are also committed ourselves to revolutionizing our operations, as we balance security, affordability, and transition. We are increasing our maximum sustainable capacity from 12 million barrels per day to 13 by 2027 helping to ensure that a reliable supply of energy is available for all people in all areas of the globe. Parallel to that, and fueled by our 2050 net-zero ambition, we are committed to maintaining our position as one of the lowest carbon intensity suppliers of energy in the world. To achieve these goals, we are implementing our Downstream Transformational Strategy. This involves an ambitious growth plan in crude to chemicals, cleaner conventional engines, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen and much more. One exciting project will come to life right here in Bahrain in just over two weeks at the Bahrain International Circuit. We have been tirelessly working with the International Automobile Federation to implement the use of sustainable fuels in the world’s fastest racing cars. We are extremely excited to see Formula 2 and Formula 3 have their first-ever races utilizing Aramco sustainable fuels as they kick off the 2023 season the first weekend of March. And as these sustainable fuels are used in high speed open-wheel racing, we are thrilled about the possibilities for further development and use in other automobiles and methods of transportation in the future. From transport trucks to airplanes to mini-vans this truly could be a “turning point” for our industry. Finally, while many are focused on the transition of energy right now, materials also emit a lot of carbon. So it is crucial that the world also pursue a materials transition or global net-zero goals may not be reached. Hydrocarbon-based materials, such as polymers and composites, emit less CO2 and are more sustainable and could transform the way we use and reuse materials across the entire global economy, by complementing traditional materials in a big way. At Aramco, we are giving equal importance to the materials transition. Because of the superior cost, efficiency, and environmental advantages over their metal counterparts, we are turning crude oil into advanced polymeric materials to meet the growing demand for more sustainable nonmetallic solutions that lower both costs and emissions. But it goes much further than this. From applications in automotives, to cities, to the entire range of modern infrastructure the increasing demand for more cost-effective, durable, sustainable, and longer-lasting materials will be significant. And as Aramco celebrates its 90th anniversary this year, we are thrilled to once again be pioneers on the road ahead. Ladies and gentlemen, these are just a few examples of what Aramco is doing to “capitalize on transformation”. And we know we are not alone in this journey. Colleagues in other companies and nations are working on equally innovative and inspirational projects to position our industry and region for a promising future. That’s why this conference is so critically important. We all have an amazing opportunity to learn and share with the diversity of topics being a testament to the growth and evolution of Downstream in the region and abroad. I truly hope you all enjoy this conference and I look forward to further collaboration and partnership, as we usher in the new era for Downstream together. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBismillah ir Rahman ir Rahim,  Your Excellency Mohammed El-Kuwaiz, distinguished guests: good morning. I want to applaud the Saudi Tadawul Group for holding this timely Forum and also say thank you for the invitation to share my thoughts. Let me begin by stating the obvious. Capital markets are critical drivers of global economic development and crucial to business growth.  And while the benefits of international capital markets clearly remain unchanged, the role of domestic capital markets is becoming even more important in an increasingly fragmented world. What is also clear is that in some countries, capital market development is not receiving enough attention and therefore falling short of full potential. Here in the Kingdom that is not the case, as capital market development is high on the agenda under Vision 2030. The results speak for themselves. This is now one of the fastest-growing capital markets in the world, benefiting from an economy that is the fastest-growing among the G-20. And the Saudi stock exchange now ranks among the top globally by market cap, with Aramco’s listing being one contributing factor. Indeed, full credit goes to the Saudi Government, the CMA and the Tadawul Group for the tremendous job they have done. Also, a special thank you to His Excellency Mohammed Al-Jadaan, who is overseeing capital market transformation as Chairman of the Financial Development Program. As far as the future of capital markets is concerned, ESG is clearly a rising trend. And in my view, an increased emphasis on ESG is a move in the right direction.  However, if ESG-driven policies are implemented with an automatic bias against any and all conventional energy projects, the resulting underinvestment will have serious implications. For the global economy. For energy affordability. And for energy security.   Unfortunately, that is exactly what is already happening. The cost of capital for oil and gas projects has risen due to a higher perceived risk, and capital scarcity is a common phenomenon, driven by ESG. This leads me to a core issue I want to bring to your attention: the global energy transition and how capital market participants perceive it.  Historically, capital markets have played a crucial role in the development of the oil, gas and chemical sectors. In turn, these sectors have offered fairly healthy returns.   And while the energy industry is obviously cyclical, it continues to offer very solid returns. Yet, investment in oil and gas has fallen sharply. Upstream investment in 2022 was around $400 billion – less than half of the peak in 2014. The primary reason: pressure from multiple directions to discontinue all new investments in oil and gas. Pressure based on what I strongly believe are flawed assumptions and arguments. Proponents of the popular energy transition narrative paint a picture of a utopian world where alternatives are ready to replace oil and gas almost overnight. Likewise, they assume the massive global energy system – including less-than-reliable electric grids in many developing countries – can be transformed instantly.  Unfortunately, too many participants in capital markets are believing this rhetoric rather than seeing the reality.   As the energy crisis in Europe has demonstrated, alternatives are not ready to shoulder the heavy burden of global demand.  Indeed, the world will continue to depend on oil and gas for the foreseeable future, particularly in sectors such as heavy transport, heavy industry and power generation. From my perspective, for a less-risky global energy transition, everyone – including capital markets – must take a more realistic view of how the global energy transition will unfold. Now, I know that for many of you this is a tough ask. After all, decisions of investors as well as financial institutions are influenced by prevailing public sentiment.  As such, the global energy transition presents some major challenges to capital markets, but also some significant opportunities. The opportunities are obvious given enormous amounts of capital will be required. Up to $275 trillion in cumulative spending by 2050 to achieve net-zero ambitions according to some estimates. The corresponding challenge is where all this capital will come from. Some global equity investors do recognize the current capital supply demand gap and they acknowledge more investment is needed.  But for some, any expression of interest in oil and gas is challenged by their investment committees. As a result, even projects offering solid returns will face a shortage of available capital. Moving on, another challenge for capital markets is the difference between the developed and developing world. In the developed world, alternative energy sources and technologies are being heavily incentivized by some governments. There is, as you know, a risk in taking a policy-driven over a market-based approach. As countries approach full-scale deployment, these incentives will become difficult to sustain because of their sheer magnitude.  Meanwhile, in the developing world, the global energy transition has major economic and social implications. Public funding of an energy transition on a scale and at a speed comparable to richer nations is simply not possible.  Emerging markets are already struggling with high levels of cost.  At the end of 2020, debt in developing countries stood at over 200% of GDP… a 50-year record. To reach net-zero ambitions globally, we clearly cannot ignore developing countries. In fact, we should all be concerned that continuing to impose unrealistic energy transition plans will lead to unintended consequences.  Consequences that include, but are not limited to, compromising affordability, creating energy insecurity. Even pushing people back to burning more coal, more wood, more animal waste.  Something that is already happening. That all said, the biggest single challenge for capital markets related to the global energy transition is striking the right balance. In particular, financing new energy sources while also continuing to support conventional energy and its decarbonization. And I have to say, the current investment imbalance is leading us down a dangerous path.  In 2022, for example, the world committed $1.1 trillion towards the global energy transition. However, investment in two critical areas – namely carbon capture and storage and also hydrogen – accounted for less than 1% of this total. Ladies and gentlemen, my message for you is straightforward. Capital markets have an obvious opportunity to concurrently address the trilemma of energy affordability, energy security and sustainability.  By restoring investment in vital conventional energy sources.  By increasing investment in technologies that reduce the carbon footprint of oil and gas.  And of course, by continuing to invest in new energy sources, including renewables as well as blue and green hydrogen.  In other words, there are wide-ranging, financially attractive opportunities for you, provided you adopt a more holistic and just approach to investing in the global energy transition. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAmin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, today gave a keynote speech at the second edition of the Saudi Capital Market Forum, which was held under the auspices of His Excellency the Chairman of the Board of the Capital Market Authority, Muhammad Al-Quwaiz. In his speech, Mr. Nasser highlighted that capital market development is high on the agenda under the Kingdom’s vision. Mr. Nasser applauded the Saudi Capital Market growth, saying “this is now one of the fastest-growing capital markets in the world, benefiting from an economy that is the fastest-growing among the G20. And the Saudi Stock Exchange now ranks among the top globally by market cap, with Aramco’s listing being one contributing factor.” In his speech, Mr. Nasser also emphasized the role of financial markets in driving the global economy, supporting the energy transition and achieving net-zero targets. However, he warned that the level of investment in oil and gas is currently nearly half of what it was around 10 years ago. According to Mr. Nasser, this will negatively affect global energy security. “From my perspective, for a less risky global energy transition, everyone – including capital markets around the world – must take a more realistic and balanced view of how the global energy transition will unfold,” he said. Mr. Nasser also highlighted investment opportunities the energy transition provides for financial markets, referencing carbon capture and storage, as well as hydrogen, as areas that still require substantially more funding as they will have positive impact on energy sustainability. Aramco is a sponsor of the Saudi Capital Market Forum, which is attended by investors, exporters and financial market institutions. The forum will conclude with the Saudi Financial Market Awards Ceremony, with categories to honor the best brokers, asset managers, and public offerings.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  Aramco today announced a strategic partnership with Zoom and an increase in funding for Wa’ed Ventures. The announcements were made at the second edition of LEAP, a major international technology conference held annually in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.  The strategic partnership with Aramco aims to build Zoom’s first global data center in the Kingdom, to support the digital transformation ecosystem. The data center is expected to connect to the Zoom global data center network and will serve Saudi Arabia and the region. With Aramco, Zoom will also explore the joint development of innovative technology solutions for the energy sector. The partnership aims to contribute to the digital transformation of various market sectors, such as energy, industry, education and healthcare. Aramco also announced additional funds had been allocated by the company to Wa’ed Ventures, increasing the size of its Kingdom-focused venture capital arm from $200m to $500m. The increase aims to enable the company to deliver an accelerated investment performance regionally and globally. Wa’ed Ventures aims to localize global frontier technologies to advance the Kingdom’s innovation ecosystem; expand investments in mid and growth-stage startups; and fund underserved domains such as environmental, social and governance, the metaverse and quantum computing.  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “Our establishment of a diversified network of partners has helped us maintain a track record of reliability, and our new strategic partnership with Zoom is expected to further enable innovative solutions focusing on the digital transformation ecosystem. Furthermore, with an expanded fund size, Wa’ed Ventures aims to facilitate the cross-pollination of innovation between the global and local markets.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim.  Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon.   I would like to thank the Minister of Communications and Information Technology, His Excellency Abdullah Alswaha, for inviting me to speak here today.  I congratulate him and all concerned for making LEAP one of the leading global tech conferences in only its second edition. You can see that just by looking at the range of subjects being addressed this week. Everything from Fintech to HealthTech; from Future Energy to Future Cities; from metaverse to universe! It is a powerful reminder of how technology is already transforming, and even disrupting, industries and economies around the world. It is an equally powerful indicator of the boundless opportunities for those who proactively seek, embrace, and apply technology to their businesses and long-term needs.  No wonder Vision 2030 places so much emphasis on innovation and advanced technology.  But these days cutting-edge quickly becomes blunt. For example, in 2016 our TeraPOWERS simulator successfully made the industry’s first trillion cell reservoir simulation run, using the Shaheen II super computer.  Just five years later, Aramco and the Saudi Telecom Company commissioned the Dammam-7 super computer. It is among the most powerful in the world with a processing capacity of 55.4 petaflops.  In other words, what got us here won’t get us there! That is why regularly asking ourselves “what next?” has helped us to become a genuine technology company pushing the frontiers of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Today, I would like to give you a flavor of “what next?” at Aramco in five key areas.  First, our ability to deploy Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies is central to our long-term strategies,  growth, and 2050 net-zero ambition.  For example, our Artificial Intelligence Hub helps with AI-driven solutions such as flaring predictions to help reduce emissions, and pre-emptively identifies the risk of equipment and component failures in our facilities.  We are also leveraging the Internet of Things and Advanced Analytics to create “smart cities” within Aramco communities.  From smart street lights, to intelligent parking, smart power and water meters, and integrated transportation, the aim is to conserve water, save energy, and improve people’s quality of life. We expect Dhahran to be our first smart city by year-end.  Second, we are increasingly transforming petabytes of real-time data into actionable, value adding insights so we can raise the bar on our business performance.  In turn, this helps us to deliver the energy the world needs more efficiently, safely, and sustainably.  Last week, we announced the launch of the Aramco Digital Company.   The purpose of Aramco Digital is to reinforce our leadership position in energy industry AI; to drive digital innovation across Saudi industry; and to enable the growth of the Saudi digital economy through a network of partnerships, projects, and joint ventures.  We are planning to invest $1.9 billion dollars over the next three years, making it the biggest Aramco investment in digital to date, while adding value to the Kingdom’s digital ecosystem.  Third, to show you the scale of our ambition with Aramco Digital, an important early project worth highlighting is the Aramco Global AI Corridor.  It will develop and commercialize complex AI solutions, train Saudi talent, support Saudi starts-ups, and together with global partners build a local AI ecosystem. The Corridor has been activated, and the first phase is now live.   Fourth, there is our domestic venture capital arm, Wa’ed Ventures, which unlocks innovation in the Kingdom’s tech startup ecosystem. I am pleased to announce that we have more than doubled the Wa’ed fund from 200 million dollars to half a billion dollars.  It is part of our 3.5 billion dollars in venture capital investments, which also includes a 1.5 billion dollar Sustainability Fund, a billion dollars for disruptive technologies, and 500 million dollars especially for digital and industrial investments. Expanding the Wa’ed fund will enable it to bridge the financing gap for later stage startups, and help founders grow their companies regionally and globally.  It will also enable Wa’ed to localize frontier technologies related to Spacetech, sustainability, and quantum computing. And make the Kingdom a pivotal location for global tech ventures.  Fifth, our Digital Sustainability Flagship Program aims to streamline all current and future digital projects that relate to environmental sustainability under one framework. This will help to develop sustainability analytics solutions and support our 2050 net-zero ambition.  The Program has identified more than 200 digital use cases across the business so far. And I am proud that we are making the digital solutions we develop available to other companies in the region and around the world. Because at the heart of all our efforts is the power of partnerships.  For Aramco, that includes our in-Kingdom and satellite R&D centers, and the billions of dollars in venture capital investments I just mentioned.  We also have wide ranging partnerships with technology developers, academic institutions, service companies, and others.  For example, we have just announced a new strategic partnership with Zoom, who have chosen to locate their first global node in the MENA region here in the Kingdom.  And with cybersecurity threats growing exponentially as digitalization expands, this also receives our special attention where again we have strong technology partnerships. In fact, last October, we announced plans for a strategic collaboration with IBM to establish an Innovation Hub here in Riyadh.  It will leverage emerging technologies in hybrid cloud, AI, and quantum computing to address complex industry challenges such as cybersecurity, as well as sustainability, materials science, and others. But for me accelerating talent development is the key to technology development and tech leadership. Last week, I met the first cohort of Aramcons to graduate from our AI Corridor and Autonomous Systems Academy at Caltech. These talented young people will help us utilize crucial technologies  that will balance energy security, affordability, and environmental sustainability. And I hope they will inspire many others to consider the contribution they can make inside our industry, that will enhance people’s daily lives, help their dreams come true, and protect our environment. Ladies and Gentlemen, for all of us, the future increasingly depends on creating and deploying high-end technology to leap into new worlds.  That is why we are prioritizing considerable investments at Aramco in the capabilities, disruptive technologies, and talent to make us the world’s leading digitalized energy and chemicals company.  And because partnerships will play such a crucial role, we are incredibly excited by LEAP and the impressive progress being made to establish a thriving tech sector here in Saudi Arabia.  We invite you to join us, and help us solve some of the most challenging issues facing our industry, Saudi Arabia, and the world. Thank you. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comiktva program achieves 63% local content in 2022, up from 59% in 2021 100 signings reinforce localization efforts across key sectors Aramco Digital Company to accelerate digital transformation efforts 13 winners recognized with iktva excellence awards  Aramco signed over 100 agreements and MoU’s, valued at around $7.2 billion to help advance a diverse, sustainable and globally competitive industrial ecosystem at the 7th edition of the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) Forum and Exhibition. The program achieved 63% local content in 2022, up from 35% in 2015, when iktva was originally launched. The forum, which runs from January 30 to February 2, is held under the theme of ‘Accelerating Future Success’. It highlights collective localization efforts in key focus areas including Digital, Sustainability, Industrial, and Manufacturing. The first day of the event attracted more than 10,000 visitors and the exhibition space included more than 290 companies. The event, which was held under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz, Governor of the Eastern Province, was also attended by Minister of Energy, HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz. The gathering provided a platform for the launch of Aramco Digital Company, a wholly owned subsidiary which aims to accelerate digital transformation within the Kingdom and the MENA region. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Aramco Executive Vice President of Technical Services, said: “The local supplier ecosystem is a top priority for Aramco as well as a major contributor to the Kingdom’s economy. Through this mega program we are helping to create a culture of innovation and provide high quality jobs for our growing population. The launch of Aramco Digital Company is a great example of such innovation in action, providing state-of-the-art AI and emerging technology expertise in a vital sector of the economy.” The iktva program encourages the establishment of regional headquarters in the Kingdom. Since inception, more than 150 investments have been made in Kingdom including products manufactured for the first time in Saudi Arabia. The company has also established 16 national training centers (NTCs) in 10 cities, covering more than 60 trades.  To date, they have graduated more than 48,000 Saudi nationals. Major signings include: 2023 iktva award winners:Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning.   As I just said in Arabic, we are honored once again by the presence of the Amir of the Eastern Province, His Royal Highness Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz.   And this would not be iktva week without the Minister of Energy, His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz. His inspirational leadership has been crucial to the exceptional success of iktva. I would also like to thank the Minister of Industry and Mineral Resources, His Excellency Bandar AlKhorayef, for his leadership, and the Kingdom-wide momentum he has generated through the Localization Council.   My thanks also to our Chairman, His Excellency Yasir Al-Rumayyan, for his leadership, and the clear passion he has for iktva. And of course nothing would be possible without the outstanding commitment of our suppliers to localization in the first seven years of iktva. It has made Aramco’s businesses more cost efficient, more resilient, and even more reliable, while sharing the rewards we promised. I am extremely delighted to say that, as of today, we have achieved 63 percent local content across our procurement. And we are aiming for 70 percent by 2025.  Thank you all for your incredible help in really moving the needle.  Despite a challenging global environment, I believe 2023 will be a transformational year for our supply chain thanks to three compelling reasons. First, with our recently announced Namaat program complementing iktva, we will take “Made in Saudi Arabia” to a higher strategic level this year. The expanded scope includes six key sectors: sustainability; digitalization; industrial investments; manufacturing; infrastructure, and citizenship. And with more and higher end goods and services available locally, and across the Kingdom’s industrial ecosystem, cost efficiency should be further improved while adding even more resilience and reliability to our operations. Those who become actively involved in the much expanded scope, locate their R&D centers and regional headquarters in Saudi Arabia, transfer technology, and help us develop talented young Saudis will see the greatest rewards coming their way. We also expect the combined power of iktva and Namaat to enable a much greater contribution to the diversification and industrialization of the Kingdom’s economy, and a stronger industrial ecosystem more broadly. And this will further enhance our alignment with the most powerful strategic driver of economic and social progress in the Kingdom: Vision 2030. So it is time to hit the accelerator. That is why I am proud to announce a major new initiative in digital transformation with the launch of the Aramco Digital Company today.  The purpose of Aramco Digital is threefold: to reinforce our leadership position in energy industry AI; to drive digital innovation across wider Saudi industry; and to grow the Saudi digital economy through a network of partnerships, projects, and joint ventures. We are planning to invest $1.9 billion dollars over the next 3 years, making it the biggest Aramco investment in digital to date, while adding value to the Kingdom’s digital ecosystem. Second, we are determined to make the localization of our supply chain and associated in-Kingdom investments more sustainable as part of our contribution to climate protection. We will be placing far greater focus on the use of more sustainable materials, such as those based on polymers, to complement high emission and hard-to-abate industries like steel, aluminum, and concrete. Because without a successful Materials Transition global net-zero emission goals will not be met. An intensified focus on ambitious CCUS technologies and projects is also important as success here would be critical to net-zero goals. And those suppliers who also contribute to the Circular Carbon Economy will really stand out. Third, the Kingdom is among the fastest growing economies in the world, the fastest in the G20, and set to become a one trillion dollar economy for the first time. Every time I meet with international business leaders, they tell me how excited they are about the prospects for growth here, while many other economies are struggling. And when they hear about the scale and pace of Aramco’s growth plans, with the largest capital program in our 90-year history, they understand what a land of opportunities this is. However, profitable and sustainable growth is not possible without the skills and talent of our people. Ninety years of creating value at Aramco has taught us that. It is also in our DNA that each generation should pass an inheritance they can be proud of to the next. Our pioneers passed us a world-class oil business and would be proud to see oil is still center stage.  My generation can be proud of passing on a world-leading, integrated energy business, as well as pioneering work on decarbonization and putting Aramco at the heart of lower carbon businesses such as blue hydrogen, renewables, and more sustainable materials. And in years to come, I am sure that today’s youth will look back with pride on how they created the game-changing technology to drive it all, and inspire those who come next. Ladies and Gentlemen, this is why I am so excited about 2023. It signals a momentous expansion of our supply chain program, while contributing to and taking advantage of the Kingdom’s industrial ecosystem, and with an ever greater focus on sustainability. Combined with the largest capital program in Aramco’s history, and the flourishing Saudi economy, I am confident that those who join us on the iktva express will see their opportunities and competitive advantages scale new heights. And show the world that this is not just a land of opportunities for investors. But truly a Kingdom of opportunities for all. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood afternoon ladies and gentlemen. It is an honor to be back in beautiful Florence. I have had the pleasure of attending this event twice in the past. Once in-person here in the heart of Tuscany, and then two years ago addressing a virtual audience. And given the constantly evolving nature of our industry, to me, this event has always been a moment to pause, take a deep breath, and reflect on what this relentless, fast-paced change means. So, to Lorenzo and the entire team at Baker Hughes, thank you for gathering such a talented group of leaders to discuss what lies ahead. And this brings me to my remarks today. I would like to talk about dominos. No, not the Domino Theory, as I like to avoid politics. Not the tile-based game either, which I understand first appeared right here in Italy. What I want to discuss is the domino effect. In particular, the series of recent chain reactions that are having a massive impact on our industry. When this domino effect started is difficult to pinpoint exactly. But, in our view, it began when unrealistic scenarios and impracticable transition policies led some people to think that oil and gas must be replaced as we move to a lower-carbon world. In turn, these overly optimistic beliefs have fueled chronic underinvestment in our industry, with investments scaling back from over $700 billion in 2014 to about $300 billion in 2021. Now, some blame today’s supply issues and price volatility on the conflict in Ukraine. But the reality is that the energy market was stretched thin beforehand. As much of the world economy came out of lockdowns last year, oil and gas demand came roaring back, because alternatives were not yet ready to shoulder the significant burden of demand. Meanwhile, oil supply capacity expansion was lagging, due to those lower investments. Amidst this supply and demand rollercoaster, many say that the oil and gas sector is in terminal decline – a “sunset industry”. This misperception has unfortunately led to challenges for our industry, with labor, staffing and supply chain issues creeping up across the globe. These items have potentially serious implications, something I will come back to. But the overall challenge we all face is how to stop these dominos from continuing to fall. And instead focus our efforts on this event’s theme of “balance and momentum”. So how will we do it? To begin, I believe we need to take every opportunity as an industry to shatter the misleading narrative that oil and gas can be quickly and easily replaced in the global energy transition. Or that conventional sources have no role in a net-zero world. Fossil or conventional fuels still supplied more than 82% of the world’s energy in 2021, and while modern renewables (excluding hydroelectricity) are growing fast, they are still supplying less than 7% of total global primary energy supplies. By comparison, oil supplies more than 30% of the world’s energy, and gas more than 24%. Also, the reality is that a transition plan that may work in a high income country may not work in poorer regions. So, transition is going to happen at different speeds in different parts of the world, depending on their stages of development. Poverty is another key factor we must keep in mind. For the 2.6 billion people who still do not have access to clean cooking for example. Or the three quarters of a billion people who lack electricity. Furthermore, affordability is a major hurdle. Last year, McKinsey estimated that a net-zero world will cost 275 trillion dollars by 2050, with each country having its own priorities and unique situations. This ultimately means one single path will not work. So, I believe there is an urgent need to re-evaluate the situation, and develop transition plans that are more realistic, acknowledging the need for ample, reliable and affordable energy, of course alongside climate protection efforts. Both are doable. They do not have to compete with one another. As for what individual companies need to do, I am not going to attempt to speak for others. But I can tell you what Aramco is doing to maintain global energy “balance and momentum”. We are increasing our maximum sustainable capacity from 12 million barrels per day to 13 by 2027, helping to ensure a reliable supply of energy is available for the world. We are working to increase our gas production by more than 50% by the end of this decade, including 630,000 barrels per day of gas liquids and condensates from the unconventional Jafurah field. We are reinventing upstream, making exploration, drilling and production more fit-for-purpose for tomorrow’s world – smarter, safer, more efficient, and above all, more sustainable. Fueled by our 2050 net-zero ambition, we are committed to maintaining our position as one of the lowest carbon intensity suppliers of energy in the world. Just last month, Aramco President & CEO Amin Nasser stated that just as important as the on-going energy transition, is the materials transition. We are strengthening our focus on the materials transition at Aramco, as this is a central part of achieving our net zero ambition. As such, we have an ambitious growth plan in chemicals, aiming to convert 4 million barrels per day of liquids into chemicals by 2030. This opens the door and possibilities to a new era of end-products from what our Upstream organizations produce, something we are truly excited about. Beside our 2050 net zero aspiration, we have set concrete interim targets to move toward our goal. It includes further reducing our upstream carbon intensity by at least 15% by 2035, against our 2018 baseline. Additionally, Aramco continues to make investments in areas such as cleaner conventional engines, carbon capture, utilization and storage, as well as hydrogen and renewables. And we are putting technology at the forefront of our future, harnessing the power of AI, robotics, supercomputing and the latest digital technologies. In fact, our various venture capital technology and sustainability funds now have at least 3.5 billion dollars to help address complex climate challenges. As Aramco moves forward in a world where oil and gas will still play a prominent and parallel role in the energy future, we will of course continue to rely on oilfield service companies such as Baker Hughes. Our path of growth, sustainability and innovation cannot occur in a silo… in fact, we embrace the opportunity for our trusted partners to join us on this journey, making the dominos sturdier and more secure. I am encouraged when I meet with partners who are coming forward with their own breakthrough technologies, and are targeting their own low-carbon, climate and sustainability goals. And while our relationship with service companies remains strong, there are challenges that require attention. Earlier, I mentioned staffing. Top talent is critical to our joint future. But a labor shortage is growing across the globe in many sectors, and while some businesses can reduce their hours to compensate, our industry does not have that option. Good hands and minds are leaving at an alarming rate. Many have found different employment through the pandemic, have taken on early retirement, or are choosing not to enter our industry altogether. That’s why regularly reinforcing the important role oil and gas plays in any viable energy future – and the wonderful opportunities available for talented people – is so vital. If we do not, this could potentially lead to increased number of safety risks, lower efficiency and lower reliability for our industry. But I am encouraged by recent conversations regarding staffing. And I know that by working together with the great minds in this room, we can solve the pressing talent crunch. Another critical component of our joint success is the importance of nearshoring and localization of supply chains. For Aramco, longstanding localization efforts by our company and partners, like those in this room, have resulted in the development of a more resilient, efficient, and world-class in-Kingdom supply chain. This has been a significant factor in our ability to maintain business continuity and ensure a constant supply of energy to the world, even during times of crisis, such as COVID, and the 2019 attack on our processing facilities. By working with our partners, we have been able to adapt successfully in the face of unanticipated shocks, through the ability to avoid disruption and quicken recovery. Keeping supply chains close at hand is essential for this level of rapid reaction, essentially stopping the dominos from continuing to fall should the first few topple over. In fact, running parallel to the Baker Hughes AGM this week, Aramco is proudly hosting our annual IKTVA Forum back in the Kingdom, highlighting the great work being done by all of our partners, including Baker Hughes, in this area. Ladies and gentlemen, working together, we can persuade the world to adopt a more resilient global energy transition, resulting in a more affordable, secure, and sustainable energy future. However, given the history of our many past accomplishments, underpinned by the strong partnerships our industry has forged, I am hopeful and optimistic for our joint future. And by working together, we can maintain the crucial balance and positive momentum this conference so aptly emphasizes.  Thank you again to Lorenzo and Baker Hughes for having me join today.  Grazie.  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announces the 100% acquisition of Motiva Trading by the Aramco Trading Company (ATC), one of the world’s leading commodity trading companies, and the launch of Aramco Trading Americas LLC (ATA), a wholly-owned subsidiary of ATC based in Houston, Texas. ATA will be ATC’s regional office, expanding its trading business in North and South America to capture new opportunities and increase its existing customer base. Under the purchase agreement, ATA will be the sole supplier and ‘offtaker' of Motiva Enterprises, which owns North America’s largest refinery with a crude refining capacity of 630,000 barrels a day, producing consumer and commercial grade fuels and base oils.  Mohammed K. Al-Mulhim, President & CEO of ATC, said: “The acquisition of Motiva Trading and the establishment of Aramco Trading Americas are a giant step towards executing our ambitious global growth strategy, which aims to expand our geographical reach and scale of operations, while further strengthening our product flexibility and optionality.”  With the launch of ATA, ATC brings its business closer to customers and provides them significant access to the world’s robust hydrocarbon system, which will significantly strengthen its value chain globally.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”), one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation (“Sinopec”) and SABIC, are exploring collaboration across refining and petrochemical projects in China and Saudi Arabia. Aramco and Sinopec, one of the world’s largest energy and petrochemical corporations, have signed heads of agreement for a greenfield project in Gulei, Fujian Province, which plans to include a 320,000 barrels-per-day refinery and 1.5 million tons-per-year petrochemical cracker complex. It is expected to commence operations by the end of 2025. Additionally, Aramco, SABIC and Sinopec signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) on December 15, to study the economic and technical feasibility of developing a new petrochemical complex to be integrated with an existing refinery in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “These projects represent an opportunity to contribute to a modern, efficient and integrated downstream sector in both China and Saudi Arabia. They also underpin our long-term commitment to remain a reliable supplier of energy and chemicals to Asia’s largest economy.” The announcements support Aramco’s role as a reliable energy supplier to China as the company seeks to expand its liquids to chemicals capacity to up to 4 million barrels per day by 2030. The collaboration also aligns with Sinopec’s vision to become a world-leading energy and petrochemical corporation, providing quality products and reliable energy to benefit the lives of people worldwide.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) and TotalEnergies have taken the final investment decision for the construction of a world scale petrochemical facility in Saudi Arabia. The ‘Amiral’ complex will be owned, operated, and integrated with the existing SATORP refinery located in Jubail on Saudi Arabia’s eastern coast. The investment decision is subject to customary closing conditions and approvals.   The petrochemical facility will enable SATORP to convert internally produced refinery off-gases and naphtha, as well as ethane and natural gasoline supplied by Aramco, into higher value chemicals, helping to advance Aramco’s liquids to chemicals strategy. The complex will comprise of a mixed feed cracker capable of producing 1.65 million tons per annum of ethylene, the first in the region to be integrated with a refinery. It will also include two state-of-the-art polyethylene units using  Advanced Dual Loop technology, a butadiene extraction unit, and other associated derivatives units.  The project alone represents an investment of around $11 billion, of which $4 billion will be funded through equity by Aramco (62.5%) and TotalEnergies (37.5%). Its construction is scheduled to begin during the first quarter of 2023 with commercial operation targeted to start in 2027.  Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “Our long-standing relationship with TotalEnergies has been further strengthened by this important project, which represents an opportunity for us to showcase the potential for cutting edge liquids to chemicals technologies that support the circular economy. With this collaboration we aim to expand the value chain by producing advanced chemicals more efficiently than ever before, accelerating industrial progress in the Kingdom.” TotalEnergies Chairman and CEO Patrick Pouyanné, said: “We are delighted to write a new page of our joint history by launching this expansion project, building on the successful development of SATORP, our biggest and most efficient refining and petrochemicals platform in the world. It also deepens the exemplary relationship between our two companies over many decades in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. This world-class complex also fits with our strategy to expand sustainably in petrochemicals by maximizing the synergies within our major platforms.” Eventually, the complex will provide feedstock to other petrochemical and specialty chemical plants, located in the Jubail industrial area, which will be built, owned and operated by globally renowned downstream investors, entailing an estimated additional $4 billion of investments.  This will support the establishment of key manufacturing industries such as carbon fibers, lubes, drilling fluids, detergents, food additives, automotive parts and tires. The overall complex, including adjacent facilities, is expected to create 7,000 local direct and indirect jobs.  In July 2022, SATORP was the first MENA refinery to be certified ISCC+, an international recognition towards its circular initiatives, such as the recycling of plastic and used cooking oil. A first batch of recycled plastic was processed by the refinery in November 2022.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”), one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, and Shandong Energy Group, are exploring collaboration on integrated refining and petrochemical opportunities in China. The companies have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) which includes a potential crude oil supply agreement and chemicals products offtake agreement, supporting Aramco’s role in building a thriving downstream sector in Shandong Province.  The signing ceremony, which was conducted with the participation of Shandong Provincial People’s Government, underlined the importance of Aramco’s collaboration with Chinese companies. The scope of the MoU extends to cooperation across technologies related to hydrogen, renewables and carbon capture and storage.  Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “Through collaborations such as this in China’s energy heartland, we are creating new pathways for growth in a country that is driving the increased integration of refining and petrochemical processes. I am delighted that this spirit of cooperation is being extended across hydrogen, renewables and carbon capture and excited by the potential for further cooperation in these key areas which will shape our collective future.” Li Wei, Chairman of Shandong Energy Group, said: “Both Shandong Energy and Aramco are important players in the international energy arena. We share a lot of common interests, complementary strategies with expansive scope for cooperation, especially in oil and gas resources development and integrated refining and petrochemicals development along the whole industrial chain.” The announcement strengthens Aramco’s efforts to support demand for energy, petrochemicals and non-metallics in China as the company seeks to expand its liquids to chemicals capacity to up to 4 million barrels per day by 2030.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, a very good morning to you all. Let me add my congratulations to GPCA and their partners for bringing this important Forum to the Kingdom for the first time.  And Riyadh – which aims to be among the 10 largest city economies in the world with Vision 2030 – is the ideal setting for the chemical industry to be just as visionary. We meet when energy issues are the focus of unprecedented social, economic, and political turbulence around the world. But one crucial component has been largely missing from the net-zero debate – the enormous impact that growth in material use will have on reducing global greenhouse gas emissions. So today I want to talk about another transition – the materials transition.  It is just as important as the energy transition to climate protection, equally in need of action not words, and especially relevant to the chemical industry and its future strategies.  And global net-zero emissions goals will not be met without a successful materials transition, which is why I believe it will be the next big thing. Let me first offer some context. By 2060, the world’s population is expected to reach 10 billion people. Eighty percent of them are projected to be living in cities by then. And global GDP is forecast to quadruple. People will rightly want a share of this, meaning demand for materials is also likely to increase considerably. Indeed, demand is projected to more than double from 79 gigatonnes in 2011 to 167 gigatonnes in 2060. And materials production, use, and eventual disposal already account for almost a quarter of all global CO2 emissions. So the increase in materials use, even if somewhat decoupled from economic growth, will be shadowed by a further rise in CO2 emissions, particularly in hard-to-abate-industries. Under a business as usual scenario, emissions from various industries are projected to increase substantially.   For example, emissions from concrete are projected to total almost 4 gigatonnes of CO2 by 2050 because of the growth in demand. Meanwhile, the iron and steel sector accounts for more emissions than the whole of road freight, and global demand for steel alone is expected to rise by more than a third by 2050. To help reduce emissions in this growth environment, more durable and more sustainable materials must be the building blocks of 21st century life. Just imagine a future where skyscrapers, bridges, planes, cars – including electric ones – and even World Cup football stadiums are built with these advanced materials. But to achieve a well thought-out and accelerated materials transition, cutting-edge R&D, innovation, and the necessary investments are essential.  This is where chemistry in action could shape a lower emission, more sustainable materials future. To begin with, there is materials circularity, or what we call the Circular Carbon Economy.  Two notable examples include the world-first circular polymer by our affiliate, SABIC, and Aramco’s sustainable e-fuels. Then there is materials efficiency.  There are opportunities throughout value chains.  It is not only by extending life cycles, but also achieving higher strength to weight ratios, and reducing materials losses during production and construction. Lower carbon hydrogen will also play a major role, in a variety of applications in the chemical industry.  It can produce ammonia and methanol, or be used as a clean energy source in steam crackers, and in turn can produce more sustainable fertilizers, plastics, and other industrial products. In fact, Aramco and SABIC recently obtained the world’s first independent certification recognizing the production of blue hydrogen and blue ammonia. And the big opportunity for the chemical industry is to steadily supplement existing materials as their carbon footprint is lowered too, with more durable and sustainable ones, especially polymer- and carbon-based materials.  So I believe the industry should especially focus on finding optimal material solutions, with a lower carbon footprint, in high volume applications.  Opportunities in a wide range of industries such as housing, construction, infrastructure, automotive, renewables, oil and gas all come to mind.  Already, every 1 megawatt of installed renewable energy capacity utilizes 8 to 11 tonnes of petrochemicals-based materials. And by doing so, a viable path to a truly sustainable materials future will be in reach. That is exactly why we are strengthening our focus on materials transition at Aramco, and make it an central part of achieving our 2050 net-zero ambition.  The case for sustainable materials is also complemented by a powerful business case that is driving our world-leading chemicals growth ambitions.  Such ambitions add major value to our hydrocarbon resources, and make our business portfolio even more robust.  And no matter which energy transition scenario plays out, oil demand from the petrochemicals sector is likely to remain robust. In fact, under a net-zero scenario, petrochemicals could still account for more than half of total global oil demand by 2050. So the more intense the transition, the more important petrochemicals will be to the oil and gas industry, and other industries. That is why our strategy – as highlighted by our Energy Minister, His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman – to convert up to 4 million barrels per day of liquids into chemicals by 2030, supported by technology investments, is beginning to take shape. Last month, we announced the first large-scale deployment of our crude-to-chemicals cracking technology at our S-Oil integrated downstream hub in Korea. Here at home, His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, recently announced a joint project between Aramco and SABIC to develop a crude oil-to-chemicals complex in Ras Al-Khair. These are major steps forward in our downstream business, and show the power of technical innovations to meet our ambitions. More advanced, more sustainable materials would undeniably strengthen the power of our net-zero ambition and our chemicals strategies.  But to earn a larger share of the materials market in high volume applications, we must be cost competitive.  And right now, the cost of advanced composite materials is much higher than steel, aluminum alloys, and concrete.
So my broader call to action is threefold.  First, the chemical industry needs to strengthen and accelerate its innovation efforts to develop more durable and more sustainable materials, at scale, while reducing their cost.  Second, establishing an advanced materials center, here in the Kingdom, could strengthen and complement existing programs and push the boundaries of innovation through global collaboration.  Third, the energy crisis is forcing many chemical companies to cut operations or shut down, particularly in Europe.  With an abundance of fuels and feedstocks, and extensive range of support infrastructure, it has never been more attractive for overseas chemical companies to invest here.  Ladies and Gentlemen, a viable materials transition in parallel with a viable energy transition is urgently needed to build a new world made to last.   This is a unique opportunity for the chemical industry to take big decisions, redefine the materials of modern life, and make a decisive difference to both transitions and our planet. What inspires me most, when I look at the exceptional global talent gathered here in Riyadh, is that I see an industry this is ready for action.  And an industry this is ready to make history. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”), one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, has successfully closed three landmark transactions with Polish refiner and fuel retailer PKN ORLEN, through its subsidiary Aramco Overseas Company BV, based in the Netherlands. As part of the transaction, first announced in January 2022, the Company acquired equity stakes of 30% in a 210,000 barrels-per-day refinery in Gdansk; 100% in an associated wholesale business; and 50% in a plane fuel marketing joint venture with BP Europa SE, which operates in seven airports in Poland, following PKN ORLEN’s merger with Grupa LOTOS. The agreements represent a significant milestone in Aramco’s long-term strategy to grow its integrated refining and petrochemicals capacity, and expand its product portfolio across the entire hydrocarbon value chain. The transactions also seek to establish a solid foundation for further business development, and aim to complement Aramco’s strategy to expand its liquids to chemicals capacity to up to 4 million barrels per day.  Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “These investments are part of our efforts towards cementing Aramco’s presence in a key European market, and provide a unique opportunity to develop new liquids to chemicals pathways, with hopes of expanding our global downstream footprint and supporting the diversification of our portfolio. At the same time, we aspire to continue developing our product portfolio through our ongoing downstream transformation strategy.” Daniel Obajtek, President of the PKN ORLEN Management Board, said: “These transactions are of strategic importance in further strengthening energy supplies, not only in Poland but for the entire region. We have built the largest company in Central Europe with a diversified portfolio of assets that will effectively strengthen current business lines and develop new ones. This creates new growth opportunities to allow us to continue to expand in prospective and high-margin products.” Aramco and PKN ORLEN have also entered into a crude oil sales agreement, pursuant to which Aramco will supply approximately 45% of PKN ORLEN’s crude oil requirements. In addition to the investments, Aramco, SABIC and PKN ORLEN have signed a joint development agreement to assess the technical and economic feasibility of a potential petrochemical project in the Polish city of Gdansk. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today signed 59 corporate procurement agreements (CPAs) with 51 local and global manufacturers, with potential to create 5,000 new jobs in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia over the next decade. The agreements, valued at $11 billion, are expected to reinforce Aramco’s robust supply chain and result in the development of materials manufacturing facilities in the Kingdom. The 59 CPAs cover multiple strategic commodities, such as drilling chemicals, wellheads, switchgears, vibration monitoring systems, pipes, compressors, structure steel, fittings and flanges, and air-cooled heat exchangers. Among the companies signing the agreements were Baker Hughes, Cameron Al Rushaid, Halliburton, SLB, and TechnipFMC. The CPAs fall under a strategic pillar of the Aramco in-Kingdom Total Value Add program (iktva), wherein they are used to establish long-term agreements and commitments with supplier partners. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, said: “Our significant investments in a network of accomplished local suppliers strengthens Aramco’s resilience, ensuring that we remain the world’s most reliable energy company.  We are also extensively building commercial ecosystems globally by partnering with some of the world’s top energy, logistics, and manufacturing companies.” Mohammad A. Al-Shammary, Aramco Vice President of Procurement and Supply Chain Management, said: “The CPA holders will be our future strategic manufacturing partners for these commodities, and the agreements further broaden our localization infrastructure across the Aramco network.” The CPAs aim to establish a framework for mutual collaboration and joint success. CPA holders share Aramco’s vision for establishing a world-class supply chain in Saudi Arabia.  Under their CPA agreements, supplier partners agree to establish local facilities, transfer technology, perform local research and development, and develop the local workforce and supply chain, while gaining preferred status with Aramco, Aramco joint ventures, and affiliates. Since the launch of the CPA pillar, Aramco has entered into over 100 CPAs. These strategic agreements have driven localization in critical commodities such as drill bits, downhole, valves, pressure vessels, and process automation systems. In addition, some CPA holders now export materials globally while providing Aramco with the capacity to embark on the most robust project portfolio in the company’s history. Aramco launched iktva in 2015 with the goal of establishing a world-class supply chain in Saudi Arabia.  Since inception, iktva has delivered in key focus areas including Saudi workforce development, research and development, supplier development, and exports.  Since its launch, the iktva program has contributed more than $130 billion to the Kingdom’s gross domestic product, while creating more than 100,000 supply chain jobs for Saudis. The program has matured and grown stronger through some of the industry’s most challenging times, while bringing reliability and sustainability to Aramco’s supply chain.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco is making its biggest ever investment in South Korea to develop one of the world’s largest refinery-integrated petrochemical steam crackers through its S-OIL affiliate, in line with the company’s strategy to maximize the crude to chemicals value chain. The $7 billion Shaheen project aims to convert crude oil into petrochemical feedstock and would represent the first commercialization of Aramco and Lummus Technology’s TC2C thermal crude to chemicals technology, which increases chemical yield and reduces operating costs. It follows an earlier $4 billion investment into the first phase of the petrochemical expansion completed in 2018. Located at S-Oil’s existing site in Ulsan, the new plant is planned to have the capacity to produce up to 3.2 million tons of petrochemicals annually and include a facility to produce high-value polymers. The project is expected to start in 2023 and be completed by 2026. The steam cracker is expected to process by-products from crude processing, including naphtha and off-gas, to produce ethylene — a building block petrochemical used to make thousands of everyday items. The plant is also expected to produce propylene, butadiene and other basic chemicals. Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “The global petrochemical landscape is rapidly evolving with demand growth anticipated to accelerate, driven in part by rising consumption from Asia’s emerging economies. That is why S-Oil’s Shaheen is well positioned to meet rising demand for the materials that will be required across the region’s key industries. By further integrating refining and chemical processes through the first commercialization of Aramco’s thermal crude to chemicals technology, we aim to create a more efficient, competitive and sustainable platform for growth, while paving the way for further downstream expansion.” Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, said: “Shaheen aspires to be a gamechanger not only for S-OIL in South Korea, but also for our global chemicals business, allowing us to process a greater range of feedstocks in a more efficient and less energy-intensive way. The project represents the first large-scale deployment of Aramco’s thermal crude to chemicals technology and shows how, through better design, we can contribute to the transition to more efficient and more sustainable production processes.”   The new steam cracker is planned to use mixed feedstocks, outperforming naphtha-based crackers in terms of overall efficiency and performance. Upon project completion, S-OIL chemical yield based on volume could almost double to 25%, which demonstrates the impact of this cutting-edge technology, complementing Aramco’s strategy to expand its liquids to chemicals capacity to up to 4 million barrels per day. Aramco is the majority shareholder of S-OIL, holding more than 63% of the company’s shares through its Aramco Overseas Company B.V. subsidiary. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, and Indonesia’s PT Pertamina (Persero) are exploring collaboration across the hydrogen and ammonia value chain. The companies signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) outlining future cooperation across this key pathway of the energy transition, in a ceremony that took place alongside the B20 Summit in Bali, the official G20 dialogue forum with the global business community. G20 members and global energy companies have jointly committed to be part of the solution to the global energy crisis which is affecting millions of people worldwide – and which forms the backdrop to the G20 Summit in Bali.  The MoU was signed by the President Director of PT Pertamina (Persero), Nicke Widyawati, and Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream. Clean ammonia and hydrogen development have significant roles in Indonesia's 2060 net zero emissions roadmap and the country is expected to be a key player in green hydrogen production in Asia. Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, said: “As a company, our ambition is to achieve net-zero scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions across our wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.  Our work in developing new ammonia and hydrogen energy pathways will be pivotal in achieving that goal while helping to advance an affordable, equitable and more sustainable transition for all.” President Director of Pertamina, Nicke Widyawati, said: “The energy transition should not jeopardize energy security and affordability, especially for countries that are still dependent on fossil fuels. That's why Pertamina has developed a decarbonization program through CCUS. Hydrogen and Ammonia are expected to play a key role in a future climate-neutral economy, enabling emission-free power generation, heavy transport, heating and industrial processes.”  The MoU involves a pre-feasibility study that aims to assess the possibility of cooperation related to the development of a clean ammonia and hydrogen value chain. It includes potential carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) at Pertamina Group's existing facilities and other agreed potential locations. The study will explore investment viability and jointly develop commercialization options, including but not limited to business organization and commercial structures for clean ammonia and hydrogen in Indonesia. The study is expected to be conducted over the next two years, and depending on outcomes may be developed further. Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, good evening. Let me first thank the Minister of Energy, His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, for hosting this magnificent Gala Dinner on the eve of the Saudi Green Initiative Forum, under the patronage of His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Crown Prince and Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. And my thanks to our Egyptian brothers and sisters for reminding us of their world-famous hospitality, here in Sharm El-Sheikh. As His Royal Highness just rightly said, this is a testing time in the world of energy.  All of us need a little inspiration as we face up to the triple challenges of security, equity, and environmental sustainability. So when I read that endurance swimmer, Lewis Pugh just completed the world’s first swim across the Red Sea, from Tiran Island in Saudi to Hurghada in Egypt, I was genuinely inspired.  That feeling only grew when I discovered that he was joined on the first leg to Sharm El-Sheikh by Dr. Mariam Binladen who became the first Saudi, first Arab, and first woman to swim from Saudi to Sinai.  Because Lewis and Mariam’s incredible achievements are a timely reminder that action speaks loudest of all. And an action-led philosophy is at the heart of Aramco’s response to the triple challenges, based on three strategic pillars.  First, recognition by policy makers and other stakeholders that ample and affordable conventional energy supplies are still required over the long term.  Second, new and lower carbon energy supplies are also needed to steadily complement conventional sources like oil and gas.  But the third pillar is what I want to focus on tonight. And that is the clear need for further reductions in the carbon footprint of conventional energy, enabled by technology as well as greater efficiency of energy use. At Aramco, we are working flat-out to lower our upstream carbon intensity, our gas flaring, and our methane intensity, which are already among the lowest in the world. Meanwhile, our rapidly growing chemicals portfolio supports the increasingly non-combustible uses of oil. Crucially, we are intensifying efforts to advance key enabling technologies. We are founding members of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, or OGCI, which drives collective action at the industry level. At the company level, just last month Aramco Energy Ventures announced the creation of a $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund that will invest in breakthrough technologies and startups to find solutions to complex climate challenges.  And CCUS in particular could be the golden key to a viable energy future. The evidence is building that CCUS is critical to delivering the world’s net-zero commitments, especially its potential to capture CO2 emissions in hard-to-abate industries.  So, to expand on His Royal Highness’s announcement, I am proud to reveal the signing of a Joint Development Agreement tonight, in partnership with the Ministry of Energy, for one of the largest planned Carbon Capture and Storage hubs in the world.  Located on the east coast of Saudi Arabia in Jubail, it will potentially be able to safely store up to 9 million tonnes of CO2 a year by 2027. At Aramco, we aim to contribute around 6 million tonnes, with the remaining 3 million coming from other industrial sources. And as overall capacity ramps up, we plan to start other phases of our CCUS projects.  Our goal is that these projects will make a significant contribution to the 44 million tonnes the Kingdom plans to capture by 2035.  So this is a big game-changer on many fronts. It is also part of a broader, integrated strategy at Aramco to achieve our GHG reduction targets by 2035, and our net-zero ambition by 2050.  And it leverages the government’s Shareek program, which promotes vigorous participation of the private sector in the Kingdom’s economic transformation toward a lower carbon future.  In turn, this project underlines how essential partnerships are. And we are delighted to have Linde and SLB (as we must get used to calling you!) as our main commercial partners.  Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe that Lewis and Mariam’s incredible swim can truly inspire us to surpass our bold ambitions with even bolder actions, at accelerated speed.  And to use this Forum to focus on the areas that truly move us closer to the secure, equitable, and environmentally sustainable energy future we all need. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen It is a pleasure to be with you again for this Global Cybersecurity Forum here in Riyadh. And thank you for inviting me to speak about cybersecurity in the energy sector. After all, there are very few industries – if any – that play such a significant role in every single aspect of the daily lives of billions of people around the world. From keeping the lights on, to actually protecting the world from complete chaos. In fact, the energy industry’s importance cannot be overstated. It is no surprise, therefore, that the energy industry as a whole and in parts has long been a favored target for attackers. While such attacks were typically physical in the past, the danger is now compounded with the additional threat of cyberattacks. And whether these cyberattacks originate with criminal gangs seeking payments through ransomware or from terrorist groups seeking to damage critical energy infrastructure, the danger for us is very clear, present and constant.    Now, clearly the energy industry has an obvious vulnerability. Namely, the sector’s dependency on legacy systems, many of which were built long before cyberattacks were ever considered a risk. And our industry’s shift towards digitalization is leading to a growing convergence of information and operational technologies, something that also increases the potential danger of crippling cyberattacks. Indeed, this convergence makes it easier for cyber attackers to move laterally within organizations, which has very serious implications. The other consideration that we must take in to account is the fact that the energy industry is a complex ecosystem, with many common service providers and partners. It is therefore vital that cyber resilience is extended beyond just big energy companies to include all service providers throughout our respective supply chains. This is why Aramco requires all of our partners, suppliers and service providers to put in place strong cybersecurity standards.  That said, fighting against cyberattacks is not something that individual companies can do on their own. We all need to urgently increase collaboration.  Across borders. Across industries. Across the public and private sectors. Aramco, for our part, is an active member of global platforms and organizations that are bringing together multiple stakeholders to tackle cyber threats. We are one of the founding partners of the World Economic Forum’s Center for Cybersecurity.  Through this and other organizations, we are supporting the adoption of best practices and principles for cyber resilience globally. Here in the Kingdom, we have also recently partnered with the National Cybersecurity Authority, joining as a founding member of their OT Center of Excellence.  This initiative by the NCA will help shape the global cybersecurity ecosystem, providing common standards and advancing R&D. Simply put, cyber resilience is and will continue to be an extremely high priority at Aramco as cyberattacks are among our top corporate risks. As such, we see a cyber-aware culture across our organization and the entire ecosystem as essential. In fact, this year we are introducing cybersecurity as one of the select categories of Aramco’s President’s Excellence Awards. These are annual and internal awards that I personally hand out. Awards which recognize achievements by organizations within the company, as well as affiliates and partners. This means we now rank cybersecurity on par with other critical areas such as safety, operational excellence and environmental excellence. We take it so seriously because the Kingdom’s energy and chemical products go to almost every corner of the world. And any significant disruption of these flows, through either physical attacks or cyberattacks, would have devastating consequences.  To help put the stark reality of cybersecurity into perspective. We must never forget that cyber attackers really only need to be successful once to cause major damage, while to prevent such, we on the other hand, must be successful every single time. Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comCommenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:  “Aramco’s strong earnings and record free cash flow in the third quarter reinforce our proven ability to generate significant value through our low cost, low-carbon intensity Upstream production and strategically integrated Upstream and Downstream business. While global crude oil prices during this period were affected by continued economic uncertainty, our long-term view is that oil demand will continue to grow for the rest of the decade given the world’s need for more affordable and reliable energy.  “Against the backdrop of global underinvestment in our sector, we are extending our long-term oil and gas production capabilities while also working towards our previously stated ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions from our wholly-owned operated assets.  “Our plans for our Downstream expansion continue to move forward as we seek to leverage the significant potential of our products to meet rising global demand for petrochemicals, which will be critical to the materials transition that is required to support a lower-carbon future. In addition, we continue to develop new, lower-carbon energy solutions as we work to be part of a more practical, stable and inclusive energy transition.” For more information, please see the 2022 Saudi Aramco Third Quarter Interim Report.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  Aramco and IBM (NYSE: IBM) today announced preliminary plans for a strategic collaboration to establish an Innovation Hub in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. The collaboration aims to support high-tech driven economic growth in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia leveraging emerging technologies in hybrid cloud, AI, and quantum computing to address objectives including circular economy, materials science, supply chain, sustainability, security, and digitization. Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, Ahmad Al Sa’adi, said: “The strategic collaboration of Aramco’s leadership with IBM’s enhanced technologies, R&D, and deep expertise, aspires to achieve potential breakthroughs in the energy sector that will have industry-wide impact. Through this collaboration, we are seeking to leverage the next frontiers in computing to drive economic growth and enable decarbonization through digital technologies.” Aramco is one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals company, supporting the sustainable and diversified expansion of the Kingdom’s economy, and contributing towards a globally competitive and vibrant Saudi energy sector. “Through this strategic collaboration with Aramco, we aim to reinforce our commitment to be part of the Kingdom’s future by aligning with its 2030 vision for a digital led economy,” said Saad Toma, General Manager, IBM Middle East and Africa. “This collaboration aims to help develop local skills and talent with the knowledge and expertise needed to build this vision for the future using IBM technologies and expertise.” As part of the plans,  Aramco and IBM will collaborate to identify potential opportunities for the application of technologies to address sustainability challenges. The aim is to accelerate the exploration of climate mitigation and adaption solutions using hybrid cloud, AI, and other emerging technologies, to help improve carbon emission performance and prepare enterprises for the impact of climate change in alignment with the Kingdom’s sustainability vision.  IBM and Aramco also plan to collaborate to identify opportunities for the application of technology to address supply chain efficiency and resiliency challenges, such as providing greater visibility and transparency across the supply chain. The planned Innovation Hub aims to bring together IBM Consulting and Technology experts to work alongside Aramco experts in identifying novel and potentially impactful uses of technology, showcasing viability through an agile iterative approach, and then scaling these innovations.  This center is one of the first in the region that will apply the IBM Garage methodology to co-create and co-develop digital solutions with Aramco and others in the region.  IBM has a long history of working with the energy industry, and has been present in Saudi Arabia since 1947, when the first computer was installed in Aramco.
The Memorandum of Understanding signed today is subject to the parties reaching final agreement.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced the creation of a $1.5 billion Sustainability Fund to invest in technology that can support a stable and inclusive energy transition. It was unveiled at the sixth edition of the Future Investment Initiative (FII) and is among the largest sustainability-focused venture capital funds globally. Managed by Aramco Ventures, the venture capital arm of Aramco, the fund is an extension of the Company’s efforts to meet the world’s growing energy demand, with lower greenhouse gas emissions. The fund plans to invest in technologies that support the Company’s announced net-zero 2050 ambition in its wholly-owned operational assets, as well as development of new lower-carbon fuels. Initial focus areas will include carbon capture and storage, greenhouse gas emissions, energy efficiency, nature-based climate solutions, digital sustainability, hydrogen, ammonia and synthetic fuels. The fund will target investments globally. In addition, Aramco’s wholly-owned subsidiary Aramco Trading Company has participated in the first voluntary carbon credits auction organized by the Public Investment Fund (PIF). It follows the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between Aramco and PIF earlier this year, to participate in a regional voluntary carbon market to be launched in Saudi Arabia in 2023.  Aramco Chairman, H.E. Yasir O. Al-Rumayyan, said: “Climate change is a critical issue, which is why sustainability is well-integrated in Aramco’s strategy and investment decisions. The Company is harnessing innovation and collaboration as it seeks long-term solutions to global energy challenges. By driving large-scale investments and building key domestic, regional and international partnerships, Aramco aims to enable a stable and inclusive energy transition that meets the world’s need for energy with lower emissions.” Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “The Sustainability Fund reinforces our commitment to leverage innovative technologies that will make a difference in addressing the dual challenge of achieving greater energy security and sustainability, and show how these two great imperatives can and must co-exist. Our participation in the MENA region’s first voluntary carbon market in Saudi Arabia represents another pathway towards our long-term net zero ambition and demonstrates how we can deliver a multi-pronged approach in addressing the climate challenges we face.” Aramco’s ambition is to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. In June, the Company also announced a set of interim targets that it aims to achieve by 2035, which are intended to reduce or mitigate net Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by more than 50 million metric tons of CO2e annually, when compared to the business-as-usual forecast.  In addition, the Company is developing its blue ammonia and hydrogen business, with the aim of producing up to 11 million metric tons of blue ammonia per year by 2030 — with the potential to support significant emissions reductions in hard-to-decarbonize sectors such as heavy-duty transport, heating and industrial applications.  The Company is also exploring opportunities to reduce GHG emissions along the entire value chain of its products, and aims to implement a range of initiatives to support the Circular Carbon Economy framework in which CO2 emissions are reduced, reused, recycled and removed.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: a very good morning to you. Today, we are here to focus on one of the most critical components of any economy: small and medium-sized enterprises. SMEs have been described in many ways. From essential economic engines… to key generators of new employment… to the backbone of global economies. Here in Saudi Arabia, Vision 2030 names SMEs as being “among the most important agents of economic growth.” Aramco has long been committed to supporting the further expansion of the Kingdom’s energy and industrial SME ecosystem through our different programs. Our In-Kingdom Total Value Add or iktva program is just one example. In fact, facilitating the development of a diverse and sustainable in-Kingdom energy ecosystem that supports Aramco’s own competitiveness is one of the four main themes of our corporate strategy. Next to the other strategies such as maintaining our Upstream pre-eminence, increasing our Downstream integration and developing lower carbon products and solutions. So, with the contribution of SMEs to the Kingdom’s GDP, which is targeted to reach 35% by 2030, we want to continue our contributions. Which brings me back to why we are here today – to formally launch the Aramco Taleed program. Taleed is comprehensive program that is devoted specifically to sustaining and growing SMEs domestically, which in return aims to create new jobs and contribute to the Kingdom’s GDP. Our objectives for Taleed are very clear. We aim to further stimulate and accelerate the development of sustainable SMEs. We are closely aligning this program with public-private initiatives directly linked to the Kingdom’s strategies. And through Taleed, we are working to address challenges that many SMEs are facing. Now, as you know, one of the biggest challenges that SMEs are facing is funding. And that is why Taleed has already built alliances to provide financial solutions totaling over three billion riyals, all devoted to supporting local SMEs. These funds will be provided by five major national funds: Al-Rajhi Holding, the Energy Capital Group, Lamar Holding, International Maritime Industries, in addition to the Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center.  Inspired by Vision 2030, the Taleed program features 20 major initiatives that can be categorized into three groups. First, there are initiatives which focus on improving the skills of local talent to better match the job market requirements. This includes a National Vocational Apprenticeship Program, which will provide the right skilled resources to the Aramco Namaat companies and others companies across the Kingdom. We have actually already started this with ITQAN institute and will be recognizing today the first cohort of Safety Officers who will serve many local companies. The second group of initiatives focus on creating multiple business opportunities for SMEs. This includes the establishment of Integrated Parks to create business opportunities in various untapped areas such as agriculture, artisans, and cloud kitchens. And we will be establishing these world-class integrated parks across nine cities in the Kingdom, enabling participating SMEs to sustain their market reach across the Kingdom and also all-year-round. Another example in this second group of initiatives is the establishment of a National Artisans Company. One of its aims is to address some of the challenges typically faced by artisans by offering shared services such as training, product development and packaging. This initiative is being delivered jointly with the Heritage Commission and the Royal Institute of Traditional Arts. We also have many other examples under this group of initiatives.  The third group of initiatives focus on supporting SMEs and enabling the ecosystem. This includes the SME Excellence Program, which is a unique Aramco program tailored for SMEs to sustain and grow their business. Related to this area, a detailed assessment and benchmarking study was undertaken to identify the gaps affecting SMEs in the Kingdom. And this particular initiative has already started with onboarding 150 SMEs to provide them with access to special programs, funding, training, and consultation services.  Of course, 150 is only the start of the program. Our aim is to serve 15,000 SMEs annually, mostly through digital means. All of which leads me to some other reasons why we invited you here today.  In addition to formally launching Taleed and its 20 initiatives, we are also going to witness the signing of 30 MoUs with our public and private partners.  Furthermore, we are also going to recognize the early adopters – be it companies, academies, and graduates of the program, which is part of our plan to launch an annual national SME award initiative. Finally, before we move on, please allow me the opportunity to say thank you. On behalf of Aramco, I would like to express our sincerest gratitude to all of our partners in Government for their unlimited support of this program.  Also, thank you to our many partners within the private sector who are also working with us to make this program a reality. We trust that all of you are as excited as we are. Together we can unlock business opportunities and help SMEs fulfil their full potential. I would also like to recognize some of the entrepreneurs and the pioneers who started their own businesses. Many of them have been ex-Aramcons and I would like them to stand up and give them a thank you on behalf of everyone. I would like to also conclude with a personal note by thanking our President and CEO, Mr Amin Nasser, for his visionary leadership.  This program actually started about a year and a half ago, when I had a discussion with him and he expressed interest in providing support to SMEs. And the program we see today has really been a result of hard work by everyone in National Champions and I am very positive that it is going to make an impact on the Kingdom’s economy.

Thank you all very much.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced the launch of a new program, “Taleed”, which aims to accelerate the growth of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Saudi Arabia — helping boost their contribution to economic development and support job creation. The program targets sustainable SME growth across multiple sectors through a portfolio of 20 initiatives, providing a wide range of support from capability building and strategy development to training, market access, advisory services and business planning. It also aims to deliver funding and financial solutions to existing and new businesses through five funds, with a combined capital exceeding SAR 3 billion ($800 million). The funds are being established in collaboration with partners to support SME development in the sustainability, digital, manufacturing, industrial and social innovation domains.  Aramco is partnering with a wide range of entities to deliver Taleed initiatives, and the Company has signed 30 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with leading public and private partners to enable development of the SME ecosystem. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “Aramco has long been committed to supporting the expansion of the Kingdom’s SME ecosystem, which has a critical role to play in Saudi Arabia’s economic development. Through Taleed, we are working with the public sector, as well as private companies and institutions, to further develop the SME ecosystem and promote entrepreneurship. Our aim is to achieve high levels of excellence among SMEs, which in turn supports our own business and the national economy.” Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, said: “Our Taleed program is a catalyst for change that aims to elevate the contribution of both existing and new SMEs across multiple sectors, in turn promoting job creation and further enhancing the commercial operating environment.” Taleed will provide SMEs with targeted initiatives, complementing Aramco’s other major programs designed to enhance the Company’s resilient supply chain and the domestic business landscape. These include the Company’s flagship localization program “iktva”, as well as its industrial investments program “Namaat”, advanced product development center LAB7, and entrepreneurship center Wa’ed. These interlinked programs aim to create a supportive environment in which businesses of all sizes can flourish. The 20 initiatives being offered through Taleed are categorized into three groups: Coinciding with Taleed’s launch, a ceremony was held to recognize companies that have demonstrated a commitment to hiring trained Saudi employees and supporting SMEs, academies and institutions working to upskill Saudi talent, as well as outstanding graduates from these institutions.
 For more information on Taleed and its initiatives, email Taleed@aramco.com.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”), in collaboration with international partners, is establishing two offshore fabrication yards that aim to deliver a more than 200 percent increase in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s offshore fabrication capacity. The new yards are being constructed in Ras Al Khair in collaboration with National Petroleum Construction Company (NPCC) and McDermott International. They are expected to fabricate and assemble offshore platforms, jackets and structures for subsea pipelines.Designed to international standards and harnessing latest technologies, they are intended to serve the Kingdom, GCC and broader markets. Establishing the yards at Ras Al Khair also aims to support localization of the maritime industry, and supplement the nearby King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services. Start-up of the facilities is planned for the third quarter of 2023, with the initial combined production capacity estimated at roughly 70,000 metric tons (MT) per year, increasing the Kingdom’s total offshore fabrication capacity from 30,000 MT to 100,000 MT annually. When fully operational, the yards are expected to create up to 7,000 direct and indirect jobs, with a target Saudization rate of 70%.Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, said: “We believe the creation of these two yards represents a significant addition to infrastructure development for the maritime industry. They are expected to harness latest technologies, support localization efforts, improve the supply chain and contribute to the development of Saudi talent. In addition, they aim to contribute to economic diversification in the Kingdom.” Abdulkarim A. Al Ghamdi, Aramco Vice President of Project Management, said: “NPCC and McDermott are long-term partners of Aramco and the establishment of these yards is another example of our collaborations and joint efforts to deliver more advanced offshore facilities. The yards are intended to bring cutting-edge technologies and digital solutions to in-Kingdom fabrication. We also expect them to accelerate project delivery schedules and reinforce the local supply chain.” It is anticipated that the new offshore fabrication yards will support economic expansion and diversification in Saudi Arabia, and tap into different opportunities to create value. They could also help localize state-of-the-art technologies, while supporting Saudi Arabia’s development as a center of excellence for maritime engineering, equipment, material manufacturing and fabrication.   The offshore fabrication yards are expected to take advantage of advanced infrastructure at Ras Al Khair, including Ras Al Khair Port and the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, one of the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals companies, today announced a global partnership with the International Cricket Council (ICC), the sport’s governing body. The partnership will include Aramco sponsorship of all major men’s and women’s ICC events scheduled until the end of 2023, including the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup 2022 in Australia, the ICC Women’s T20 World Cup in South Africa, the ICC World Test Championship Final in the UK, and the ICC Men’s Cricket World Cup 2023 in India. It will connect Aramco with a global cricket audience of more than one billion cricket fans, as the Company expands its mission to deliver affordable, reliable and more sustainable energy to customers around the world.  The partnership is rooted in both organizations’ drive for excellence, and Aramco has been granted naming rights for ICC Player of the Match awards, which celebrate elite performances throughout each event.  It also reflects a shared focus on sustainability and innovation, as the ICC moves towards making cricket a more sustainable sport. Aramco recycling machines will be installed across all seven match venues in Australia for the ICC Men’s T20 World Cup later this month. Plastic waste recycled from these machines will be converted into clothing for future ICC events. ICC Chief Executive Geoff Allardice said: “We are delighted to welcome Aramco into the family of ICC global partners. Our shared commitment to excellence is the foundation of the partnership and we are looking forward to working with Aramco on our major men’s and women’s events through to the end of 2023.” Aramco Global Public Affairs General Manager, Talal Al-Marri, said: “This represents a significant addition to our network of global partnerships and we are pleased to join forces with the ICC. Excellence is one of our core values and this is reflected in our support of cricket at the elite level. It is a sport that demands high levels of focus, teamwork, discipline, integrity and ability — and these are all attributes that we value highly at Aramco.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser highlighted the need for a much more credible energy transition plan, as he delivered a keynote speech at the Schlumberger Digital Forum today.  During the event, he stressed the importance of achieving a new global consensus on the way forward, and outlined three strategic pillars that should be central to the response. The pillars are: Highlighting the consequences of a flawed transition plan, Mr. Nasser said:  “When you shame oil and gas investors, dismantle oil- and coal-fired power plants, fail to diversify energy supplies (especially gas), oppose LNG receiving terminals, and reject nuclear power, your transition plan had better be right. Instead, as this crisis has shown, the plan was just a chain of sandcastles that waves of reality have washed away. And billions around the world now face the energy access and cost of living consequences that are likely to be severe and prolonged.” On the importance of greater investment in the oil and gas sector, Mr. Nasser said:   “A fear factor is still causing the critical oil and gas investments in large, long-term projects to shrink. And this situation is not being helped by overly short-term demand factors dominating the debate. Even with strong economic headwinds, global oil demand is still fairly healthy today. But when the global economy recovers, we can expect demand to rebound further, eliminating the little spare oil production capacity out there. And by the time the world wakes up to these blind spots, it may be too late to change course. That is why I am seriously concerned.” On the need for the world to unite behind a credible new energy transition plan, Mr. Nasser said: “As the pain of the energy crisis sadly intensifies, people around the world are desperate for help. In my view, the best help that policymakers and every stakeholder can offer is to unite the world around a much more credible new transition plan, driving progress on the three strategic pillars I have outlined this morning... That is how we deliver a more secure and more sustainable energy future.”  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood morning, Ladies and Gentlemen. Thank you Olivier for inviting me to join your Forum, here in beautiful Luzern. After two summers lost to Covid, I hope everyone has enjoyed a well-earned break with family and friends. This week, however, autumn begins, and the global energy crisis promises a colder, harder winter, particularly in Europe.  Unfortunately, the response so far betrays a deep misunderstanding of how we got here in the first place, and therefore little hope of ending the crisis anytime soon. So this morning I would like to focus on the real causes as they shine a bright light on a much more credible way forward.  When historians reflect on this crisis, they will see that the warning signs in global energy policies were flashing red for almost a decade. Many of us have been insisting for years that if investments in oil and gas continued to fall, global supply growth would lag behind demand, impacting markets, the global economy, and people’s lives. In fact, oil and gas investments crashed by more than 50% between 2014 and last year, from $700 billion to a little over $300 billion. The increases this year are too little, too late, too short-term.  Meanwhile, the energy transition plan has been undermined by unrealistic scenarios and flawed assumptions because they have been mistakenly perceived as facts. For example, one scenario led many to assume that major oil use sectors would switch to alternatives almost overnight, and therefore oil demand would never return to pre-Covid levels.  In reality, once the global economy started to emerge from lockdowns, oil demand came surging back, and so did gas.  By contrast, solar and wind still only account for 10% of global power generation, and less than 2% of global primary energy supply. Even electric vehicles comprise less than 2% of the total vehicle population and now face high electricity prices.  Perhaps most damaging of all was the idea that contingency planning could be safely ignored. Because when you shame oil and gas investors, dismantle oil- and coal-fired power plants, fail to diversify energy supplies (especially gas), oppose LNG receiving terminals, and reject nuclear power, your transition plan had better be right. Instead, as this crisis has shown, the plan was just a chain of sandcastles that waves of reality have washed away. And billions around the world now face the energy access and cost of living consequences that are likely to be severe and prolonged. These are the real causes of this state of energy insecurity: under-investment in oil and gas; alternatives not ready; and no back-up plan. But you would not know that from the response so far.  For example, the conflict in Ukraine has certainly intensified the effects of the energy crisis, but it is not the root cause. Sadly, even if the conflict stopped today (as we all wish), the crisis would not end. Moreover, freezing or capping energy bills might help consumers in the short-term, but it does not address the real causes and is not the long-term solution. And taxing companies when you want them to increase production is clearly not helpful. Meanwhile, as Europe aggressively promotes alternatives and renewables technologies to reduce one set of dependencies it may simply be replacing them with new ones. As for conventional energy buyers, who expect producers to make huge investments just to satisfy their short-term needs, they should lose those expectations fast. And diverting attention from the real causes by questioning our industry’s morality does nothing to solve the problem. That is why the world must be clear about the real causes and face up to their consequences. For example, as investments in less carbon intensive gas have been ignored, and contingency planning disregarded, global consumption of coal is expected to rise this year to about 8 billion tonnes.  This would take it back to the record level of nearly a decade ago. Meanwhile, oil inventories are low, and effective global spare capacity is now about one and a half percent of global demand. Equally concerning is that oil fields around the world are declining on average at about 6% each year, and more than 20% in some older fields last year. At these levels, simply keeping production steady needs a lot of capital in its own right, while increasing capacity requires a lot more. Yet, incredibly, a fear factor is still causing the critical oil and gas investments in large, long-term projects to shrink. And this situation is not being helped by overly short-term demand factors dominating the debate. Even with strong economic headwinds, global oil demand is still fairly healthy today.  But when the global economy recovers, we can expect demand to rebound further, eliminating the little spare oil production capacity out there. And by the time the world wakes up to these blind spots, it may be too late to change course.  That is why I am seriously concerned. Let me be clear: we are not saying our global climate goals should change because of this crisis. All of us have a vested interest in climate protection. And investing in conventional sources does not mean that alternative energy sources and technologies should be ignored. But the world deserves a much better response to this crisis.  This is the moment to increase oil and gas investments, especially capacity development. And at least this crisis has finally convinced people that we need a more credible energy transition plan. In turn, I believe that requires a new global energy consensus built on three rock-solid and long-term strategic pillars:  At Aramco, we are addressing all three.  We are working to increase our oil production capacity to 13 million barrels per day by 2027. We are also growing our gas production, potentially increasing it by more than half through 2030 with a mix of conventional and unconventional gas. At the same time, we are working to lower our upstream carbon intensity, our gas flaring, and our methane intensity, which are already among the lowest in the world. We are also intensifying efforts to advance key enabling technologies, particularly CCUS which is mission-critical to a sustainable future.  Meanwhile, chemicals will become a much larger and more strategic part of our portfolio, showcasing the non-combustible uses of oil. Importantly, we are steadily adding new, lower carbon energy to our own portfolio such as blue hydrogen and blue ammonia, renewables, and electro-fuels. This is our plan to be part of a practical, stable, and inclusive energy transition; others need theirs. But transforming the massive existing worldwide energy system, and delivering a secure and sustainable future for everyone, is a truly formidable task. So the entire global energy ecosystem and its stakeholders have to work as an “industry plus” team.  We must partner to drive innovation and value on an unprecedented scale and speed to successfully deliver results across the three pillars. In my view, technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution are ripe for such partnerships, especially the rapid digital transformation of our industry. Because the right digital investments now could help deliver greater efficiency, lower costs, lower emissions, higher reliability, and higher profits over decades.  For example, at Aramco we have deployed machine learning techniques to predict and prevent safety hazards, monitor emissions, avoid breakdowns, optimize energy use, and predict potential cyber threats. These AI-powered systems are saving us time and money. And improving our ability to reliably supply energy to our customers. But we want to go further, and we are stronger when we act as a network. That is why I am proud to announce that Aramco and Schlumberger are working on a smart sustainability platform that could commercialize a number of digital solutions and support our net-zero ambitions. It is the latest chapter in our shared history which goes back to 1941. And I hope it inspires similar projects that will connect a bright future for our industry and the world. Ladies and Gentlemen, as the pain of the energy crisis sadly intensifies, people around the world are desperate for help. In my view, the best help that policy makers and every stakeholder can offer is to unite the world around a much more credible new transition plan, driving progress on the three strategic pillars I have outlined this morning.  The new plan will not be perfect. In life, nothing ever is.  But that is how we deliver a more secure and more sustainable energy future, with our industry still at its heart. That is how we can ease people’s pain.  And that is how spring will come again.  Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Highnesses, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, it is my pleasure and privilege to join you today.  

Let me start by thanking the Saudi Data and AI Authority for hosting this conference. I also want to thank Their Excellencies Abdullah Swaha and Dr Abdullah bin Sharaf AlGhamdi, for everything they have done to put Saudi AI on the map.  

Ladies and gentlemen, today Saudi Arabia is attracting record start-up investment. We are building the world’s first cognitive city at NEOM. We have a young, digitally-native population, and the fastest growth among G20 economies.  So this event could not be more timely.  As everyone knows, our world has seen profound, technology-led change in a very short space of time.  That change is accelerating.  It took landline telephones 75 years to reach 100 million users. Smartphones passed the 1 billion mark in just 15.  In the last 10 years we have seen the rise of machine learning, autonomous vehicles, the Internet-of-Things, and now the world’s first quantum computers. A mass disruption of existing business models is clearly underway.  So when I think about the AI revolution, I think about the role it could and should play in the future of business. But a major challenge is that many companies are still struggling to ‘get it right’ – and this is the key issue that I want to address today.  Businesses have always recorded data. But in the past only a fraction of it could be properly analyzed and actioned. Today, by contrast, we are drowning in data!  Thanks to the Cloud, the cost of computing and storage has dropped. And for the first time, much of our data is machine readable. We now have a huge opportunity to extract more value from that data.   And the greatest potential comes from the application of AI to non-routine cognitive tasks. That said, any significant investment in technology or AI needs to make a business more profitable and more successful.  And even as technology transforms the way we operate, it is vital to recognize that the role and purpose of AI is to complement human judgement, not to replace it.  So in my view, a key priority of business today should be to identify the optimum mix of human and machine capabilities.  I am proud that we are an industry leader in digital maturity. And based on that experience, I know that the digital transformation of large organizations cannot be achieved by IT or DT units alone.  From leadership to professionals, operations to support units, the entire ecosystem has to be on the same journey. Let me be clear: this is not just a question of hiring more data scientists. One of the distinctive features of digital transformation is that it has to be led from the top.  That means strong and perceptive leaders setting clear ambitions and guiding their team in new directions.  It also means having a strategy, not just a series of pilots and initiatives.  In Aramco’s case, this is why we created a digital transformation organization led by a Chief Digital Officer: to give this agenda the focus it deserves. And it means leaders and managers who can challenge themselves to be digitally savvy.  This is not always easy, especially for those who started their careers before the rise of the Internet. But it is something I am working on!    In fact, at Aramco we are sending our executives on digital deep dive programs – to keep them ahead of the curve. One issue that should be of concern to any leader is the potential for job destruction.  It has been estimated that as many as 800 million workers worldwide could be displaced by automation by 2030. And unlike in previous technology revolutions, those displaced today could face far more challenging job prospects. So we need to be prepared. Our workforce needs practical options for lifelong learning, recognizing that AI can compute beyond the limits of human capacity, and our schools and colleges need to be proactive about the changing shape of work.  Another emerging challenge is cyber-security. Cyber-attacks are one of the top risks we face at Aramco – on a par with natural disasters or physical attacks. But while these attacks are growing in scale and severity, AI is helping fend off some of the threat. So our efforts should not only focus on greater efficiency or deeper customer insights, but also on security and resilience.  At Aramco, we have been on our AI journey for several years now. Across the business, hundreds of employees have enrolled in AI-related courses, including machine learning and data engineering. We are also sending our employees on master’s degree programs in AI. And our broader AI strategy is starting to pay off.  For example, we now use AI to model the Kingdom’s geology. Before AI, it took months to update a detailed model of subsurface formations.  Now Aramco is using deep learning techniques to achieve the same result in minutes. We have deployed machine learning techniques to predict and prevent safety hazards, monitor emissions, avoid breakdowns, optimize energy use, and predict potential cyber-threats. These AI-powered systems are saving us time and money. And ultimately improving our ability to reliably supply energy to our customers.  So where next?   Higher levels of data processing and AI-powered analytics could be an important part of our comprehensive emissions reduction and sustainability programs. And looking further ahead, there is great excitement about quantum computing. For instance, it has been suggested that a quantum computer could analyze millions of chemical compounds to find the optimal solution for capturing CO2.  This is early-stage technology. But we want to understand it better. So, we are now working on establishing Aramco’s first quantum machine learning research program.  And like all the most powerful digital technologies, we are stronger when we act as a network. This is why a central part of our strategy is helping to build a thriving AI ecosystem in Saudi Arabia.  This work includes partnerships with companies like Cognite and Google Cloud, our joint venture with Raytheon on cybersecurity, our new Lab7 enterprise space, and collaborating with KAUST on their AI Center of Excellence.  But we want to go further.  So today I am proud to announce a new strategic project that we are calling the “Aramco Global AI Corridor”. The Corridor is designed to develop and commercialize complex AI solutions, train Saudi talent, support Saudi start-ups and, together with global partners, build a local AI ecosystem. This will include: We are in the early stages, but this demonstrates the level of our ambitions. And we are working with Caltech and one of their spin-outs Beyond Limits, as we explore this opportunity.     AI is already a game changer. Now, with the metaverse, we are about to step into the game.  The technology is maturing. The opportunities are growing exponentially. AI needs to be entrenched in new businesses from the start. SMEs must be ready to adapt.  If we get this right and invest wisely, we can optimize our industries, unlock new efficiencies, and unleash a new era of growth and transformation in Saudi Arabia.  We are already an energy leader. We can be an AI leader too, explorers, producers and exporters of immensely powerful ideas and innovation.  Empowering AI opportunities for the Kingdom and the world.  Thank you. Formula Motorsport Limited (FML) have today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Formula 1 Global Partner, Aramco, to introduce the use of sustainable fuels in both championships from 2023.  It demonstrates how the FIA Formula 2 and Formula 3 Championships are pioneers in this important area of development, while continuing to bring the FIA Formula One World Champions of the future through the single-seater pyramid. The agreement is subject to FIA World Motor Sport Council approval. It will form part of the wider sustainability strategy announced by the FIA and Formula 1, which will see the sport become net zero carbon by 2030.  By 2026, all FIA Championships will be required, by regulation, to power their cars with 100% sustainable fuels. A key milestone in the journey will be the introduction of a 100% sustainable fuel from the 2026 F1 season, alongside the next generation hybrid power units.  Motor sport continues through these innovations not only to promote, but also to be at the forefront of the creation of the multiple technologies that will play a critical role in the future of the entire transportation industry.  Aramco is working on the development of sustainable fuels as a “drop-in” technology, meaning they could be rolled out to the world’s existing automotive fleet — helping to reduce global transport emissions.  Mohammed Ben Sulayem, FIA President, said: “Sustainability is at the top of the global motor sport agenda, and it is vital to see this work not only going on in Formula 1, but also in Formula 2, Formula 3 and throughout the entire ecosystem. Our sport is developing and evolving rapidly and it will continue to lead the way, pioneering the technologies, including sustainable fuels, that will be crucial to tackle climate change. We are a key part of the solution to the problems we are facing worldwide.” Stefano Domenicali, President and CEO, Formula 1, said: “Aramco is a leader in this space and, subject to the approval of the FIA World Motor Sport Council, will deliver our sustainable fuel ambitions, working closely with our colleagues in F2 and F3, who not only bring through the drivers of the future but offer a superb testing ground for the latest engineering in motorsport. In 2026, F1 will move to zero-emission sustainable fuel that offers a game-changing solution for the automotive sector and beyond. With the support of Aramco and all our manufacturers, we can accelerate the sector’s move to net zero.”    Ahmad Al Sa’adi, Senior Vice President of Technical Services, Aramco, said: “Aramco’s ambition is to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions across our wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. Moreover, we recognize the need to work closely with our suppliers and customers to reduce emissions along the entire value chain of our products. This includes those in the transportation sector, where our approach includes redesigning internal combustion engines, and the fuels that power them. Our sustainable fuels partnership with F2 and F3 will be an extension of these efforts, and we are extremely enthusiastic about its potential.” Ahmad Al-Khowaiter, Chief Technology Officer, Aramco, said: “Aramco is leveraging its unique scale, global network, and technological expertise to help deliver low-carbon transport solutions. We believe strongly in the power of partnerships and, through our collaboration with F2 and F3, we aim to demonstrate the significant potential of liquid synthetic fuels.  We are exploring practical solutions that can enable decarbonization of the transport sector, from low-carbon fuels and more efficient engines to cutting-edge materials and carbon capture technology. By teaming up with F2 and F3 on this journey, we hope to make a positive impact by enabling emissions reduction in motorsport and, ultimately, the broader transportation sector.” Bruno Michel, CEO, FIA Formula 2 and FIA Formula 3, said: “Sustainability is a top priority in today’s world, and we have been working on making our sport more sustainable for some time now. The goal to switch to synthetic fuel can only be achieved through the partnership with a company of the scale of Aramco, which is determined to produce advanced sustainable fuel in the near future. It’s easier to implement such a significant change in F2 and in F3, as they are single-make categories with single suppliers. We’re very happy to undertake an innovation role – as we did last season with the introduction of the 18-inch tires now used in F1 – and take the first steps towards synthetic sustainable fuel.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its financial results for the second quarter of 2022, posting a 90% year-on-year (YoY) increase in net income and declaring a dividend of $18.8 billion to be paid in the third quarter.  The results set a new quarterly earnings record for the Company since its Initial Public Offering in 2019, and were primarily driven by higher crude oil prices and volumes sold, and higher refining margins. Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: 
“Our record second-quarter results reflect increasing demand for our products — particularly as a low-cost producer with one of the lowest upstream carbon intensities in the industry.  “While global market volatility and economic uncertainty remain, events during the first half of this year support our view that ongoing investment in our industry is essential — both to help ensure markets remain well supplied and to facilitate an orderly energy transition.  “In fact, we expect oil demand to continue to grow for the rest of the decade, despite downward economic pressures on short-term global forecasts.  “But while there is a very real and present need to safeguard the security of energy supplies, climate goals remain critical, which is why Aramco is working to increase production from multiple energy sources — including oil and gas, as well as renewables, and blue hydrogen.  “We are progressing the largest capital program in our history, and our approach is to invest in the reliable energy and petrochemicals that the world needs, while developing lower-carbon solutions that can contribute to the broader energy transition.”  Financial Highlights
Aramco achieved a record quarterly and half-year net income of $48.4 billion in the second quarter and $87.9 billion in the first half of 2022, compared to $25.5 billion and $47.2 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2021. The increase in both periods was primarily driven by higher crude oil prices and volumes sold, as well as strong refining margins during the second quarter and higher downstream margins in the first half of 2022. Free cash flow* increased by 53% to $34.6 billion in the second quarter and was $65.2 billion during the first half of 2022, compared to $22.6 billion and $40.9 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2021. This increase was mainly driven by higher cash from operating activities.  Return on average capital employed* (ROACE) for the second quarter and half year ended June 30, 2022, was 31.3%, compared to 16.7% for the same periods in 2021, reflecting stronger crude oil prices and volumes sold, and improved downstream margins. The Company continues to strengthen its balance sheet to maintain a high investment grade credit rating across market cycles. The gearing ratio* was 7.9% on June 30, 2022, compared to 14.2% on December 31, 2021, primarily due to higher operating cash flows, mainly reflecting stronger earnings, as well as improved downstream margins.   Funding costs continue to be optimized and the Company made a partial prepayment to the Public Investment Fund of the debt related to the Company’s acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC in 2020. This reduced the principal amounts of the promissory notes outstanding by $12 billion, in addition to the $8 billion reduction in Q1 2022.  Aramco declared a dividend of $18.8 billion for the second quarter, to be paid in Q3 2022. In addition, and as previously disclosed in its 2021 Annual Report, the Company distributed bonus shares to shareholders in Q2 2022, at a rate of one share for every 10 shares held. Aramco aims to maintain a sustainable and progressive dividend in line with future prospects and underlying financial results. Capital expenditure increased by 25% to $9.4 billion in the second quarter and by 8% to $16.9 billion for the first half of 2022, compared to the same periods in 2021. Aramco continues to invest to capture growth opportunities, progressing the strategic integration of its upstream and downstream segments, expanding its chemicals business, and developing prospects in low-carbon businesses. Operational Highlights 
The Company also demonstrated its reliable upstream performance, with average total hydrocarbon production of 13.6 million barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter of 2022. The Company continues to work on increasing its crude oil Maximum Sustainable Capacity from 12 million barrels of oil per day to 13 million barrels of oil per day by 2027. Aramco continued its strong track record of reliable supply, achieving 99.8% reliability in the delivery of crude oil and other products in the second quarter of 2022. The Company’s gas expansion program is progressing towards increasing production with initial construction and design of the Jafurah Gas Plant ongoing. The facility has a planned processing capacity of 3.1 billion standard cubic feet per day (bscfd) of raw gas, expected to be completed in two phases by 2027. The Jafurah field is expected to commence production in 2025 and will gradually increase natural gas deliveries to reach a sustainable rate of 2.0 bscfd by 2030, which will provide feedstock for hydrogen and ammonia production and will help meet expected growing local energy demand. Meanwhile, construction of the Hawiyah Unayzah Gas Reservoir Storage has reached an advanced stage, with the injection phase nearing completion. This is expected to provide up to 2.0 bscfd of natural gas to be injected into the Master Gas System by 2024. It is the first underground natural gas storage project in the Kingdom, which helps to manage seasonal changes in demand and in turn improves asset utilization and cost efficiency. Aramco successfully deployed the Ghawar-1 supercomputer for reservoir simulation. It is the second largest supercomputer in the MENA region and is expected to increase the number of completed simulation runs, enabling Aramco to explore more opportunities within its existing resources. Most recently, the Company announced an equity purchase agreement to acquire Valvoline Inc.’s global products business (Valvoline Global Products) for $2.65 billion. This strategic acquisition will complement Aramco’s line of premium branded lubricant products, optimize its global base oils production capabilities, and expand its own R&D activities and partnerships with OEMs. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals. The integration of SABIC into Aramco is progressing ahead of schedule and the Company continues to capture synergies in multiple areas, including procurement, stream integration, feedstock optimization and maintenance activities, among others. Aramco further completed the transfer of offtake rights for PRefChem polymers and monoethylene glycol to SABIC.  In May, Aramco’s refining and petrochemical joint ventures with PETRONAS in Malaysia, collectively known as PRefChem, started operations and will reach full capacity of 300,000 barrels per day by the end of the year. Aramco’s investment in PRefChem provides an expansion opportunity in an important growth market and offers new geographies for its crude oil production.  On June 15, Aramco published its inaugural Sustainability Report, which outlines ways the Company plans to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. Objectives outlined in the report include capturing, utilizing, or storing 11 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent annually by 2035; investing in renewables that aim to generate 12 gigawatts of solar and wind power by 2030; reducing or mitigating more than 50 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent annually by 2035, and reducing upstream carbon intensity by at least 15% by 2035 compared to a 2018 baseline. Additionally, the Company aims to produce 11 million tons of blue ammonia, a carrier of hydrogen, annually by 2030.  To accelerate the development of lower-carbon solutions in the energy industry, on June 27 Aramco inaugurated the Aramco Research Center at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, which uses artificial intelligence and machine learning to develop innovative ways to enable a Circular Carbon Economy. Aramco also announced a major expansion of its Namaat industrial investment program with 55 agreements and Memoranda of Understanding now in place across the sustainability, digital, industrial, manufacturing, and social innovation sectors, aiming to create jobs and expand the Kingdom’s energy and chemicals value chains. Through Namaat, Aramco seeks to localize its supply chain and ensure its long-term cost and productivity leadership, sustainability, and resilience.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) and the SABIC Agri-Nutrients Company (“SABIC AN”), have obtained the world’s first independent certifications recognizing “blue” hydrogen and ammonia production. The certifications were granted by TÜV Rheinland, a leading independent testing, inspection and certification agency based in Germany, to SABIC AN, in Jubail, for 37,800 tons of “blue” ammonia and to Aramco’s wholly-owned refinery (SASREF), also in Jubail, for 8,075 tons of “blue” hydrogen. To certify ammonia and hydrogen as “blue”, a significant part of the CO2 associated with the manufacturing process needs to be captured and utilized in downstream applications. Olivier Thorel, Aramco Vice President of Chemicals, said: “These certifications are the first of their kind in the world and signify a major milestone in our efforts to develop clean energy solutions, and advance our hydrogen and ammonia export capabilities. This independent recognition reinforces the work of Aramco and SABIC in decarbonizing multiple sectors, including energy, aviation, transportation chemicals and fertilizer industries.”  SABIC Agri-Nutrients CEO, Abdulrahman Shamsaddin, said: “We are indeed proud of this certification, which is part of our journey towards carbon neutrality. We are confident of further boosting growth with our low carbon portfolio helping our fertilizers as well as chemicals customers achieve their very own sustainability ambitions. We are fully aware that the current global industry challenges related to climate change and greenhouse gas emissions will require us to accelerate our pace of innovation to further strengthen our sustainability commitment. We are well positioned to move forward in this direction.” SABIC Vice President, Energy Efficiency and Carbon Management, Fahad Al-Sherehy said: “We are leveraging our strong existing infrastructure to produce blue ammonia that can help meet the world's growing needs for sustainable solutions. To help achieve Saudi Arabia’s target for net-zero by 2060 as part of the Saudi Green Initiative, SABIC recognizes that hydrogen will play an essential role in decarbonisation and it is part of SABIC’s overall roadmap toward carbon neutrality by 2050, with a 20% reduction target in carbon emissions by 2030. Furthermore, SABIC is exploring opportunities to utilize hydrogen for green chemistry to strengthen its sustainable solution offerings.”  Aramco and SABIC’s hydrogen and ammonia journey
In 2020, Aramco and SABIC collaborated on the world's first shipment of blue ammonia, a carrier of hydrogen, from Saudi Arabia to Japan. Forty tons of high-grade blue ammonia were dispatched for use in low-carbon power generation.  The new certifications represent another milestone for Aramco and SABIC to become global leaders in hydrogen and ammonia. Aramco has recently announced its target to produce up to 11 million tons per annum of blue ammonia by 2030, and is currently developing carbon capture and hydrogen capabilities. Blue hydrogen production will contribute to Aramco’s ambition to achieve net-zero scope 1 and scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly owned operations by 2050.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (Sinopec) covering multiple areas of potential collaboration between the parties in Saudi Arabia. The MoU outlines pathways for strategic cooperation between Aramco and Sinopec and supports the long-term relationship between the two companies and their existing joint ventures in China and in the Kingdom. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “We are delighted to be able to extend our relationship with Sinopec and leverage our mutual strength and reach while creating a path to bring our long-standing cooperation in China to our facilities in Saudi Arabia. This latest collaboration will help to further advance our strategic relationship with Sinopec into key areas of mutual benefit within the Kingdom.” Yu Baocai, President of Sinopec Corp., said: “Aramco is a very important partner of Sinopec. The two companies have yielded fruitful collaborations and developed deep friendship over the years. The signing of the MOU introduces a new chapter of our partnership in the Kingdom. The two companies will join hands in renewing the vitality and scoring new progress of the Belt and Road Initiative and Vision 2030.” The wide-ranging areas of potential cooperation include; assessing refining and petrochemical integration opportunities; engineering, procurement and construction; oilfield services, upstream and downstream technologies as well as collaboration across carbon capture and hydrogen processes.  The companies will also discuss the opportunities for the establishment of a local manufacturing hub in King Salman Energy Park. This latest collaboration builds on existing joint ventures between the two companies, including Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company (FREP) and Sinopec Senmei (Fujian) Petroleum Company (SSPC) in China, and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company (YASREF) in Saudi Arabia.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) today announced the signing of an equity purchase agreement to acquire Valvoline Inc. (NYSE: VVV) global products business (“Valvoline Global Products” or “VGP”) for US$2.65 billion. The transaction is subject to certain customary adjustments set forth in the equity purchase agreement. Valvoline Global Products is a leading worldwide independent producer and distributor of premium branded automotive, commercial and industrial lubricants, and automotive chemicals.  Aramco will benefit from VGP’s robust manufacturing and distribution network, significant R&D capabilities, strong partnerships with major OEMs, and a 150-year legacy of global brand recognition as it pursues opportunities to extend the brand globally. The strategic acquisition will complement Aramco’s line of premium branded lubricant products, optimize its global base oils production capabilities, and expand Aramco’s own R&D activities and partnerships with OEMs.   Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “Valvoline’s global products business fits perfectly with Aramco’s growth strategy for lubricants as it will leverage our global base oils production, contribute to our R&D capabilities and strengthen our existing relationships with OEMs. Valvoline’s brand strength and global recognition will continue to be developed and extended under Aramco’s stewardship. We are also very excited to have the outstanding people of VGP join the Aramco family as we continue to execute on our ambitious strategy.” Following the transaction, Valvoline will focus on its market leading Retail Services business, including further enhancing its growth trajectory and world-class service model. Retail Services expects to benefit from a strong balance sheet and a clear strategy for value creation, including extending its world-class preventive auto maintenance service model to EV owners, and fleets as the car parc evolves. “The sale of Global Products represents the successful outcome of our strategy to unlock the full, long-term value of our strong but differentiated Retail Services and Global Products businesses,” said Sam Mitchell, Valvoline CEO. “We have built two leading businesses that are well-positioned for continued success as they pursue their individual strategic priorities. We are pleased that our Global Products team will have a strategic new home with Aramco to further grow the business while developing the brand into a global lubricants leader.” Completion of the transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including the receipt of regulatory approvals.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced a major expansion of its Namaat industrial investment programs, with 55 agreements and Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) across the sustainability, digital, industrial, manufacturing and social innovation sectors. Namaat, which has grown from 32 to 55 investments since last year, supports industrial investment partnerships, helping to create jobs for Saudis and contributing to national growth and capacity building. The program aims to enable opportunities for local and international companies and leverage various incentives offered through the government’s Shareek program and other initiatives. Ahmad Al-Sa’adi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, said: “Namaat enables Aramco to be a catalyst for change across the Kingdom’s economy, while maintaining our reliability as a global energy supplier at a time of market uncertainty. Our collaboration with industry leaders in areas of strategic importance for the Kingdom, demonstrates how Aramco is creating National Champions that will bring long term benefits to our value chain, our economy and our people.” This latest phase of expansion for Namaat reflects even greater integration with other venture life cycle programs that aim to add value and support sustainable growth. It also represents significant progress for the program, with 19 of the 22 MoUs signed last year already reaching fruition, with a total investment of $3.5 billion.  The new agreements bolster Aramco’s long-term growth strategy and the Kingdom’s expanding energy and chemicals value chains. They include: Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, Distinguished Guests 
I want to welcome all of you who have been part of our namaat journey so far and also give a very special welcome to those of you joining us for the first time. 
As the name suggests, Aramco Namaat program is all about collective growth – about partnerships for growth. 
The name is very appropriate. 
Recent global developments have demonstrated that the energy industry is key to economic growth and human prosperity. 
As such, our industry faces a dual challenge: providing secure and affordable energy as well as sustainability. 
Clearly without the right partners, it would be tough to make the technological breakthroughs needed to meet the rising demand for energy while also lowering emissions. 
What is also clear is that Namaat helps us to connect with the right partners. Already, the majority of the MOUs that we signed last September have made significant progress. 
Now, Namaat was established during the pandemic at a time when there was much uncertainty. 
Some said it was not good timing to launch Namaat. 
But we decided to go ahead in the interests of continuing to enhance our efficiency and reliability. 
We are glad we did proceed, as with today’s signings, the scale of the Namaat portfolio will increase from 32 to 55 investments. 
I want to thank the entire Namaat team at Aramco, along with all the participating organizations, for all the success so far. 
I also want to thank His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, Minister of Energy, and his Ministry team for their continued support. 
Of course, Namaat is not just leading to capacity building that supports Aramco’s long-term strategy and enhancing our ability to make a positive and lasting impact on society. 
It is also directly contributing to the Kingdom’s growth and GDP through further diversification of the local economy and the creation of national champions. Through additional jobs. And through increased partnerships between public and private sectors. 
Simply put, Namaat is attracting both global industry leaders and local investors who are building local businesses that will benefit the local economy. 
In fact, Aramco’s equity participation is just over 10% of the current Namaat portfolio. 
Ladies and gentlemen, with so many opportunities in the Kingdom being created by Vision 2030 and with highly attractive government programs like Shareek also enabling and encouraging investment – the options for local and multinational organizations that are available right here and right now are both remarkable and wide-ranging. 
The door is open. The value waiting to be captured is there for the taking. 
As for today, we are announcing and celebrating more new agreements and MOUs. But Aramco Namaat will not stop or slow here. We expect more collaborations to come. 
With the transformation of Saudi Arabia, Aramco aims to continue to be one of the catalysts and enablers of progressive partnerships. 
So once again, we thank you for your participation in Aramco Namaat. 
We trust this program will continue to provide you with new opportunities to grow your business – while at Aramco, we also continue to grow ours. 
Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) today inaugurated the Aramco Research Center at KAUST (ARC KAUST), which aims to accelerate the development of low-carbon solutions for the energy industry using advanced analytics. Strategically located within the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), the newly established research hub deploys artificial intelligence and machine learning to develop innovative ways to advance low-carbon solutions and enable a Circular Carbon Economy. The inauguration ceremony was attended by Aramco Senior Vice President Upstream, Nasir K. Al-Naimi, KAUST Vice President of Innovation and Economic Development, Dr. Kevin Cullen and senior executives from SABIC, Dow and PetroRabigh. Ahmad Al-Khowaiter, Aramco Chief Technology Officer, said: “The Aramco Research Center at KAUST offers a unique opportunity to strengthen our collaboration with KAUST and accelerate the development of cutting-edge technologies that will contribute to a low-carbon future. Today energy companies face the dual challenge of delivering sustainability and reliability. The critical research undertaken at this new facility will help us meet our obligations to customers and energy consumers worldwide, while also supporting our ambition of reaching operational net-zero emissions by 2050.” ARC KAUST researchers, engineers and scientists intend to develop new technologies in carbon capture, low-carbon hydrogen/ammonia, non-metallics, e-fuels, liquids-to-chemicals, and advanced transport technologies. The opening of the center represents an important milestone in the growth of Aramco, offering unique collaboration opportunities to leverage KAUST’s capabilities in such areas as super-computing and data analytics.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, xià wǔ hǎo and good afternoon.  I would like to thank the Shandong Provincial People’s Government, and its Department of Commerce, for inviting me to address this Summit. 

Today, the world is experiencing strong economic headwinds, great volatility in commodity markets, and global supply chain challenges. Covid and Ukraine have delivered a worldwide double punch.  But chaotic thinking on vital issues hasn’t helped either. The ongoing energy crisis, for example, is a direct result of fragile international transition plans which have arbitrarily ignored energy security and affordability for all. The world needs clear-eyed thinking on such issues.  

That’s why we highly admire China’s 14th Five Year Plan for prioritizing energy security and stability, acknowledging its crucial role in economic development. President Xi’s recent observation that “green transition takes time and cannot be achieved overnight” is certainly wise.

And today I’ll offer more clarity on Aramco’s ability to help China (including Shandong Province) achieve some of its most important goals.   First, China’s rising energy needs and the challenging environment  underline the strategic case for a more resilient energy system.  Stronger ties with the world’s largest oil exporter would enhance China’s energy security, especially as we work on increasing our production capacity to 13 million barrels per day.   Second, we aspire to invest in China’s future economic growth by building a large, integrated downstream business across the country with our Chinese partners. Everything from reliable supplies of oil and natural gas liquids to refining, marketing, petrochemicals, and lubricants.  Backed by our world-leading experience of building and operating efficient downstream facilities, and ability to deploy high-tech solutions. Third, Aramco already has one of the lowest upstream carbon intensity footprints in the world. And, fueled by our well-known net-zero ambitions, we are committed to being one of China’s lowest carbon intensity suppliers of energy far into the future, leveraging ever more advanced technologies like carbon capture, utilization, and storage; hydrogen; and Direct Air Capture technology, while adopting the circular carbon economy framework. In other words, a long-term partnership with Aramco would help China meet its energy security, economic development, and climate change mitigation goals simultaneously.  That win-win-win especially applies to Shandong Province, where over a quarter of China’s total refining capacity is based.  With Aramco support, there’s an incredible opportunity to create a modern, efficient downstream sector in Shandong, with lower emissions, which could provide a wide range of products to the whole nation for decades to come. This includes our special interest in large, integrated downstream projects with high conversion into chemicals.  In fact, with SABIC joining the Aramco family, and with nearly 3,000 chemical enterprises already in Shandong Province, we could jointly create a chemicals sector to rival any in the world! And it doesn’t stop there: Saudi Vision 2030 offers major new supply chain opportunities for Shandong companies in the Kingdom. Ladies and Gentlemen, the impact of an Aramco “one-stop shop” on Shandong would be profound. And it would solidify Shandong’s crucial role in making some of China’s most important goals a reality.  Thank you, and xiè xie. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and Cognite, a global leader in industrial software, have launched CNTXT, a joint venture based in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Headquartered in Riyadh, CNTXT aims to support the Kingdom’s industrial digitalization, and the wider MENA region. CNTXT will provide digital transformation services enabled by advanced cloud solutions and leading industrial software. These solutions and services aim to help public and private sector companies to future-proof their data infrastructure, increase revenue, cut costs and reduce risks while enhancing operational sustainability and security. CNTXT is Google Cloud’s reseller for cloud solutions in the Kingdom and the exclusive reseller of Cognite Data Fusion in MENA region.  Additionally, Google Cloud is expected to launch a “Center of Excellence” later this year to provide training to developers and business leaders in how to use cloud technologies.  Led by Abdullah Jarwan, appointed CEO of CNTXT, and a management team of local and international talent, CNTXT plans to significantly grow the team this year in hopes to become the top tech employer in the Kingdom. The launch of CNTXT is a major milestone in the collaboration between Aramco and Aker ASA, the majority owner of Cognite. The partnership began in 2019, with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to develop synergies and share knowledge on industrial digitalization and sustainability initiatives.  Ahmad A. Al-Sa'adi, Aramco Senior Vice President, Technical Services, said: ‘’CNTXT brings together industrial legacy, advanced technology, and a truly talented team that will aid in the digitalization of public and private sectors in the Kingdom. CNTXT aims to be an important catalyst of digitalization of the Kingdom.”  Øyvind Eriksen, President of Aker ASA and Chair of the Cognite Board of Directors, said: “CNTXT will be an important vehicle for driving profitability and sustainability of the Kingdom’s industries through innovative use of technology. I look forward to seeing the company accelerate the digital transformation of the most important sectors in the region.”  “The untapped potential in the digital transformation of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the greater Middle East is enormous. With Google Cloud and Cognite offerings in our portfolio, we can help the public and private sectors innovate faster, scale AI-driven solutions, and turn data into value.” Said Abdullah Jarwan, CEO of CNTXT. “Businesses all around the world turn to Google Cloud to enable growth and help them solve their most business-critical challenges. With CNTXT as Google Cloud’s reseller in the Kingdom, we will be leveraging the latest technologies and decades of expertise to help businesses grow and develop safely and securely,” said AbdulRahman Al Thehaiban, Managing Director, Middle East, Turkey and Africa, Google Cloud.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellency, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, welcome.  It’s sometimes said that data is the new oil.  CNTXT, the company we launch today, is the Kingdom’s brand new data refinery.  It will help customers in the public and private sectors start to unlock the immense, unexploited potential of their data assets.  As the Kingdom’s exclusive provider of Google Cloud, CNTXT offers vast, secure data management, smart analytics, app and infrastructure modernization, and easy-to-scale AI.As the exclusive MENA-region provider of Cognite’s industrial software, CNTXT also delivers the tools to help businesses old and new become smarter, faster, more predictive and ultimately more profitable.  At Saudi Aramco, we have direct experience of the power of this technology.Today we use AI and advanced analytics, including Cognite products, to accurately predict the lifetime of equipment and plan our shipping schedules.  This is just a small selection of use cases. And looking ahead, we know that a strong, cloud-based data infrastructure is integral to our net zero ambition.  As a company we’ve said we want to achieve net zero scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions across our wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. And this will require unprecedented levels of data processing and integration. So there could not be a better time or indeed a better context in which we launch this CNTXT with our partners at Cognite.  Saudi Aramco and Cognite began working together in 2019. And working together, I believe we’ve built a remarkable partnership. Cognite brings agility to the table, and world-class software talent. We offer unmatched scale and deep experience of complex engineering challenges.  Cloud is at the heart of the CNTXT’s offerings. It’s the basic infrastructure of digital transformation, a platform for innovating rapidly and at scale.  Cloud services demand in the Kingdom is forecasted to reach up to $10 billion by 2030.  I’m very proud to be part of this project, and very grateful to Oyvind and his team for their friendship and collaboration.  Ladies and gentlemen, in concluding let me say this.  The Kingdom is rapidly emerging as the region’s technology powerhouse.  Thank you very much.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today published its first sustainability report, which outlines ways in which the Company plans to further tackle emissions while delivering reliable, affordable energy solutions. The report, which the Company expects to update on an annual basis, provides further information on Aramco’s efforts to support the broader energy transition, with a set of interim targets the Company aims to achieve by 2035. The report’s release follows the Company’s announcement of its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.  By 2035 Aramco aims to reduce its Upstream carbon intensity, already one of the lowest in the industry, by 15% to 8.7kg of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent (CO2e/boe), against a 2018 baseline of 10.2kg CO2e/boe. The Company also aims to reduce or mitigate net Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets, both in its Upstream and Downstream segments, by more than 50 million metric tons of CO2e annually by 2035, when compared to the business-as-usual forecast.  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President & CEO, said: “Our ambition is to achieve operational net-zero by 2050 and our sustainability report highlights how we aim to continue meeting the world’s rising demand for secure, reliable and affordable energy, while also contributing to the broader energy transition. We are investing for the long-term, against a backdrop of global energy and economic uncertainty, and we will continue to integrate breakthrough technologies in our operations over the next decade and beyond.” Aramco is harnessing the Circular Carbon Economy framework, which focuses on reducing, reusing, recycling and removing GHG emissions. By 2035, it aims to achieve emissions reduction and mitigation through: The report also outlines the Company’s focus on developing its blue ammonia and hydrogen business, with the aim of producing up to 11 million metric tons of blue ammonia per year by 2030 — with the potential to support significant emissions reductions in hard-to-decarbonize sectors such as heavy-duty transport, heating, and industrial applications. In compiling the report, and to identify appropriate metrics and performance indicators, Aramco evaluated more than 150 environmental, social and governance topics to establish their relative importance to the Company’s key stakeholders. The sustainability report highlights four focus areas: climate change and the energy transition, safe operations and people development, minimizing environmental impact, and growing societal value.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its first quarter 2022 financial results, posting an 82% year-on-year (YoY) increase in net income to $39.5 billion — and setting a new quarterly earnings record for the Company since its Initial Public Offering in 2019. Aramco also declared a Q1 dividend of $18.8 billion to be paid in the second quarter, and has approved the distribution of one bonus share for every 10 shares held in the Company. The results were underpinned by higher crude oil prices and volumes sold, and improved downstream margins. Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: 
“Against the backdrop of increased volatility in global markets, we remain focused on helping meet the world’s demand for energy that is reliable, affordable and increasingly sustainable. “Energy security is vital and we are investing for the long term, expanding our oil and gas production capacity to meet anticipated demand growth and creating long-term shareholder value by capitalizing on our low lifting cost, low upstream carbon intensity, and integrated downstream business.  “During the first quarter, our strategic downstream expansion progressed further in both Asia and Europe, and we continue to develop opportunities that complement our growth objectives. “As we collaborate with domestic and international partners to explore new and emerging technologies and solutions, from developing cleaner transport technologies to establishing low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia value chains, I am more optimistic than ever about the positive contribution we can make, both to our customers and to the ongoing global energy transition.” Financial Highlights
Aramco achieved a record quarterly net income of $39.5 billion in Q1, an 82% increase from $21.7 billion in Q1 2021, primarily driven by higher crude oil prices and volumes sold, and improved downstream margins. Cash flow from operating activities was $38.2 billion in the first quarter, compared to $26.5 billion in Q1 2021. Free cash flow* increased by 68% YoY to $30.6 billion and the Company continues to strengthen its balance sheet, with the gearing ratio* reducing to 8.0% at March 31, 2022 from 14.2% at December 31, 2021. The decrease in gearing was a result of higher cash and cash equivalents, primarily attributable to stronger operating cash flows and cash proceeds in connection with Aramco’s gas pipeline transaction.  In line with the Company’s prudent financial framework and focus on capital flexibility, Aramco decreased its total borrowings principally through a prepayment to the Public Investment Fund in January, therefore reducing the total outstanding principal amount of Promissory Notes by $8 billion originally issued in connection with the acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC. This resulted in a reduction in financing costs. Aramco continued to deliver a stable dividend in Q1, with $18.8 billion to be paid to shareholders in the second quarter. In addition, Aramco’s Extraordinary General Assembly on May 12 approved the Board of Directors’ recommendation in Q1 to capitalize $4 billion of retained earnings to support the distribution of bonus shares to shareholders, in the amount of one share for every 10 shares held. First quarter capital expenditure was $7.6 billion and Aramco continues to expect capital expenditure to grow until around the middle of the decade, to support the Company’s long-term strategy realization.  The Company continued to progress its portfolio optimization program and closed a lease and leaseback deal involving its gas pipeline network with a consortium of investors led by BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana Investment Company. The consortium acquired a 49% stake in a newly-formed Aramco subsidiary, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company, with Aramco receiving upfront proceeds of $15.5 billion.  Operational Highlights 
Aramco demonstrated reliable upstream performance with an average total hydrocarbon production of 13.0 million barrels of oil equivalent per day in the first quarter of 2022. The Company maintained its exceptional track record as a global energy supplier, achieving 99.9% reliability in its deliveries to customers during the first quarter. In its upstream business, Aramco made progress towards completing the Hawiyah and Haradh compression projects, with both due to come on-stream by the end of 2022 adding 1.3 billion standard cubic feet per day (bscfd) of raw gas. The Company also advanced construction of the Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion, part of the Haradh Gas increment program, which is expected to be on-stream in 2023. The Company’s Manifa project was named Upstream Project of the Year at the 2022 Middle East Energy Awards. Aramco continues demonstrate leadership in both operational excellence and environmental protection through its careful development and management of the Manifa field. Aramco also continued to make progress in its downstream expansion during the first quarter, which included growing its presence in both Asia and Europe.   The Company agreed to acquire a 30% stake in a 210,000 barrels per day refinery in Gdansk, Poland, along with sole ownership of an associated wholesale business. Aramco also agreed to acquire a 50% stake in a Polish jet fuel marketing joint venture with BP. Completion of the acquisitions, from Polish refiner and fuel retailer Grupa LOTOS in connection with its proposed merger with PKN Orlen, are subject to regulatory approvals.  In China, the Company made a final investment decision to participate in development of a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex. The joint venture, with North Huajin Chemical Industries Group Corporation and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group, includes establishing a 300,000 barrels per day refinery and petrochemicals complex, subject to completion of the joint venture transaction.  During the quarter, Aramco entered into new collaborations that seek to build on its global research and development network to advance low-emission transport solutions. These include a partnership with Hyundai Motor Group and King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) to jointly research and develop an advanced fuel for hybrid electric vehicles, to lower their CO2 emissions. Aramco also entered into a long-term strategic partnership with the Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant Formula One™ Team and, through joint R&D, will support the team’s efforts to meet Formula 1’s sustainable fuels goal, as well as development of fuel-efficient engine technologies for road vehicles and more efficient hybrid engines in motorsport.  The Company also expanded its international co-operation on developing nonmetallic solutions for the building industry, partnering with the China Building Materials Academy (CBMA) to launch the Nonmetallic Excellence and Innovation Center (NEXCEL) in Beijing. The center aims to promote the development and application of nonmetallic technologies in structures to reduce their carbon footprint and offer superior lifecycle cost, efficiency and environmental advantages over metal alternatives. Aramco’s supply chain resilience was enhanced with the signing of 50 Memoranda of Understanding during the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) Forum and Exhibition. In addition to reinforcing the Company’s resilience, reliability and cost competitiveness, the flagship iktva program aims to drive domestic value creation, maximize long-term economic growth and diversification, and build a world-class supply chain that facilitates the development of a diverse, sustainable and a globally competitive energy sector in the Kingdom. The Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding to become one of five inaugural partners of the Middle East and North Africa regional Voluntary Carbon Market (VCM), established by the Public Investment Fund. The VCM is the first of its kind in the region and will serve as a platform for participants to buy, sell and trade verified carbon equivalent credit certificates. It aligns with Aramco’s ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) is exploring further collaboration with Thailand’s national oil company PTT, as it expands its downstream presence in Asia. The two companies signed a memorandum of understanding at a ceremony in Bangkok on May 11. The companies aim to strengthen cooperation across crude oil sourcing and the marketing of refining and petrochemical products and liquefied natural gas (LNG). Other potential areas of activity include blue and green hydrogen and various clean energy initiatives. Ibrahim Al-Buainain, Aramco Vice President Sales, Trading and Supply Planning, said: “Today represents an important step forward as we deepen and broaden this relationship to achieve greater cooperation across a wide range of activities, from sourcing crude oil and marketing refining and petrochemical products and LNG, to exploring blue and green hydrogen and progressing other clean energy initiatives.”  Auttapol Rerkpiboon, PTT President & Chief Executive Officer, said: “Today marks a significant milestone for PTT and Aramco as we look to the future and extend our collaboration beyond conventional energy. It also reflects our ongoing commitment to security of supply as we embrace the energy transition.” Disathat Panyarachun, PTT Senior Executive Vice President, International Trading Business Unit, said: “PTT and Aramco have built strong ties around the supply and trading of crude oil and other products. Extending our collaboration across the value chain to include emerging decarbonization initiatives is a great opportunity to strengthen our relationship and foster further business growth. This also aligns with our ‘green and clean’ strategy which aims to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.” Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, Hyundai Motor Group, and King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), have agreed to jointly research and develop an advanced fuel for an ultra lean-burn, spark-ignition engine that aims to lower the overall CO2 emissions of a vehicle.  The 2-year partnership seeks the development of an optimal fuel formulation for use in combination with a novel combustion system coupled with an electrified hybrid vehicle.  The research team aims to unleash greater CO2 reduction potentials by deploying Hyundai Motor Group’s ultra-lean burn combustion design in a modern hybrid vehicle.     Each party brings unique expertise to the partnership. Aramco, which has significant R&D and operational experience in fuel formulations, will leverage in-house expertise to carefully design an optimal fuel formulation. Hyundai Motor Group, with its automotive and technology leadership, will provide a state-of-the-art ultra-lean gasoline engine for use by the research team. The tests will be conducted by researchers in the Clean Combustion Research Center (CCRC) at KAUST. Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Aramco’s Chief Technology Officer said, “As hybrid electrical vehicles are rolled out, the real challenge now lies in making strides with optimal fuels and exceptional combustion systems. The Aramco team provides fuel design and blending know-how to improve Hyundai Motor Group engine combustion performance and the outcome could lead to the application of synthetic e-fuels. This is a space in which we are pushing boundaries and we are excited to be part of it.” Alain Raposo, Executive Vice President at Hyundai Motor Group, said: “BEVs and FCEVs will be Hyundai Motor Group’s ultimate technologies to achieve carbon neutral mobility, while eco-friendly advanced ICE technology that combines eco-friendly fuel and ultra-lean burn engine will be the key to effectively reduce greenhouse gas emissions during our transition to EVs.”  Professor Donal Bradley, Vice President for Research of KAUST, said: “Building more efficient and less polluting transport systems is a critical contribution to the circular carbon economy approach to tackling climate change. Our Clean Combustion Research Center is ideally placed to support this significant development with its excellent record in the development and optimization of lower-carbon fuels. We look forward to working closely with our colleagues in Aramco and Hyundai on this exciting project.” Aramco‘s R&D efforts aim to accelerate transportation technologies that can reduce emissions and improve fuel efficiency. This entails partnerships with leading automakers worldwide through the company’s research centers in Dhahran, Paris, Detroit, and Shanghai.   Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its full-year 2021 financial results, reporting that net income more than doubled year-on-year to $110.0 billion. Aramco declared a fourth quarter dividend of $18.8 billion, to be paid in the first quarter of 2022.  The Company also announced its growth strategy, which in its Upstream business includes continuing to raise crude oil Maximum Sustainable Capacity (MSC) to 13 million barrels per day (mmbpd) by 2027, and potentially increasing gas production by more than 50% by 2030. In its Downstream business, the Company plans to expand its liquids to chemicals capacity to up to 4 mmbpd. Aramco also intends to develop a significant hydrogen export capability and become a global leader in Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS). In addition, the Company is targeting investment in renewable energy and nature-based solutions, as it pursues its ambition of achieving net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. This includes an aim to reach near-zero Upstream methane emissions by 2030. Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: 
“Our strong results are a testament to our financial discipline, flexibility through evolving market conditions and steadfast focus on our long-term growth strategy, which targets value growth for our shareholders.  “Although economic conditions have improved considerably, the outlook remains uncertain due to various macro-economic and geopolitical factors. But our investment plan aims to tap into rising long-term demand for reliable, affordable and ever more secure and sustainable energy.  “We recognize that energy security is paramount for billions of people around the world, which is why we continue to make progress on increasing our crude oil production capacity, executing our gas expansion program and increasing our liquids to chemicals capacity.  “We are also investing in CCS, renewables and low-carbon hydrogen production - supporting the global energy transition and advancing our net-zero ambition.” Financial Highlights
Aramco’s net income increased by 124% to $110.0 billion in 2021, compared to $49.0 billion in 2020. The increase in net income reflects higher crude oil prices, stronger refining and chemicals margins, and the consolidation of SABIC’s full-year results. Free cash flow* was $107.5 billion in 2021, compared to $49.1 billion in 2020. Aramco continues to prioritize a strong balance sheet and its gearing ratio at the end of 2021 was 14.2%, compared to 23.0% at the end of 2020.  Aramco declared a dividend of $18.8 billion for the fourth quarter, to be paid in Q1 2022. The Board of Directors also recommended that $4 billion in retained earnings be capitalized and bonus shares be distributed to shareholders, subject to required Extraordinary General Assembly and regulatory approvals. Under the recommendation, shareholders would be granted one bonus share for every ten shares owned. As a result, the total dividend for 2021 is $75 billion in cash, in addition to bonus shares. The Company aims to maintain a sustainable and progressive dividend, in line with future prospects, underlying growth in free cash flow, and long-term value creation through investments in available opportunities.  Capital expenditure in 2021 was $31.9 billion, an increase of 18% from 2020, primarily driven by increased activities in relation to crude oil increments, Tanajib Gas Plant and development drilling programs. Aramco expects 2022 capital expenditure to be approximately $40-50 billion, with further growth expected until around the middle of the decade. This is in line with the Company’s belief that substantial new investment is required to meet demand growth, against a broader decline in upstream investment across the industry globally. Reflecting progress in its portfolio optimization program, in December the Company signed a lease and leaseback deal involving its gas pipeline network with a consortium of investors led by BlackRock Real Assets and Hassana Investment Company. The deal closed in February 2022 and the consortium acquired a 49% stake in a newly-formed Aramco subsidiary, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company, with Aramco receiving upfront proceeds of $15.5 billion. Earlier in 2021, Aramco closed a similar deal for its oil pipeline network with another international investor consortium, including EIG Global Energy Partners and Mubadala. The consortium acquired a 49% stake in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company, a subsidiary of Aramco, for $12.4 billion.  In addition, Jazan Integrated Gasification and Power Company, a joint venture consisting of Saudi Aramco Power Company (SAPCO), Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra, signed agreements for the asset acquisition and project financing of $11.8 billion relating to the Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle power plant, an Air Separation Unit and certain ancillary assets from Aramco located in Jazan Economic City.  Aramco also raised $6 billion in the second quarter of 2021, as it expanded and diversified access to capital through the issuance of three tranches of US dollar-denominated Shari’a-compliant Sukuk trust certificates. The issuance was the world’s largest order book of US-dollar denominated Sukuk. Operational Highlights 
In 2021, Aramco’s average hydrocarbon production was 12.3 million barrels of oil equivalent per day (mmboed), including 9.2 mmbpd of crude oil.  Upstream continues to execute its growth plans to promote long-term productivity of Saudi Arabia’s reservoirs and is proceeding with implementing the Government’s directive to increase its crude oil MSC to 13 mmbpd by 2027. During the year, Aramco successfully completed and tied in the ‘Ain Dar and Fazran crude oil increments, and construction progress continued on the Marjan and Berri increment programs. Aramco continued its strong track record of supply reliability by delivering crude oil and other products with 99.9% reliability in 2021, despite challenges caused by COVID-19. It was the second year running that Aramco achieved this level of reliability.  In November, Aramco commenced development of the vast Jafurah unconventional gas field, the largest non-associated gas field in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. By 2030, it is expected to reach a sustainable gas rate of two billion standard cubic feet per day (bscfd) of natural gas. The Company also made progress in expanding its Downstream operations, including the successful start-up of its 400 mbpd Jazan Refinery.  In April, representing a significant step in SABIC becoming Aramco’s chemicals arm, Aramco transferred the marketing and sales responsibility for a number of Aramco petrochemicals and polymers products to SABIC. In addition, the offtake and resale responsibility of a number of SABIC products is being transferred to Aramco Trading Company (ATC). In October, Aramco and TotalEnergies launched the first service stations of a joint retail network in the Kingdom, with plans to significantly upgrade a network of more than 200 service stations and expand the range of quality retail services. In December, Aramco also announced its entry into Saudi Arabia’s domestic lubricants market, offering consumers a new line of lubricant products under the ORIZON® brand.  Aramco also announced its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. This ambition reinforces the long-term resilience and sustainability of the Company, which already has one of the lowest Upstream carbon intensities in the industry. Aramco is also among signatories to the Aiming for Zero Methane Emissions Initiative, a project of the Oil & Gas Climate Initiative which involves striving to reach near zero methane emissions from operated oil and gas assets by 2030. Further details are due to be disclosed in Aramco’s forthcoming Sustainability Report to be issued in 2022.  In August, through its subsidiary SAPCO, Aramco acquired a 30% stake in the 1500MW Sudair Solar PV project. Sudair will be one of the largest plants of its kind in the world. The Company also announced a major expansion of its industrial investment program Namaat, which aims to tap into opportunities available in Saudi Arabia to create new value, and drive economic expansion and diversification. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  Aramco has taken the final investment decision to participate in the development of a major integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in Northeast China. Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Company (HAPCO), a joint venture between Aramco, North Huajin Chemical Industries Group Corporation and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group, will develop the liquids-to-chemicals complex.  The decision, which is subject to finalization of transaction documentation, regulatory approvals and closing conditions, follows the establishment of HAPCO in December 2019 between the three partners. The project, which presents an opportunity for Aramco to supply up to 210,000 barrels per day of crude oil feedstock to the complex, is expected to be operational in 2024. It will combine a 300,000 barrels per day refinery capacity and ethylene-based steam cracker, a building block petrochemical used to manufacture thousands of everyday products. The facility, which will be built in the city of Panjin, in China’s Liaoning Province, will help meet the country’s growing demand for energy and chemical products.  Mohammed Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice-President of Downstream, said: “China is a cornerstone of our downstream expansion strategy in Asia and an increasingly significant driver of global chemical demand. Continued energy security remains a shared priority and this partnership represents another major milestone in our journey together, supporting China’s vision to create a modern economy grounded in innovation, ambition and sustainability. It will further support Aramco’s broader objective of becoming a global leader in liquids-to-chemicals.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThank you Dan, and good morning Ladies and Gentlemen.

It is such a pleasure to be back at CERA Week after a three year wait. Of course, Covid dominated much of our attention. 

But, once again, our industry rose to the moment – keeping economies moving, businesses running, and remaining at the heart of everyday lives. And, contrary to the predictions of many, oil and gas demand has surged back as economies recover.  If alternative energy sources could have shouldered the burden, they would have. But ambition is still far ahead of reality. Meanwhile, the global energy crisis has been accelerated by the tragic situation unfolding in Ukraine.  It has exposed the limitations of current energy policies, and is a bleak reminder of the impact that geopolitics can have on fragile energy transition plans.  I am sure that all of us here support efforts to de-escalate tension, and our hearts go out to all those suffering. Furthermore, mixed signals have only added to the chaos. For example, as oil and gas investments are discouraged, demands are being placed on our industry to increase production.  Indeed, this is not only a direct threat to economic prosperity, energy security, and a sure path to unaffordable energy supply.  It compromises climate protection progress, every passing day. Yet the complete transformation of the entire global energy system requires thousands of mega and giga transition projects, across multiple sectors.  It has unprecedented design, engineering, and implementation challenges. It relies on many technologies that are either not mature and un-economic right now, and on others that do not yet exist. And McKinsey Global Institute recently estimated that a net-zero world will cost the world 275 trillion dollars by 2050. Moreover, each country has its own priorities and unique situation.  But even as events confirm these realities, the transition process is still being dominated by narrow group think – often without an understanding of the energy business, or the scale and complexity of the challenges. In the meantime, many energy companies and energy professionals – who are solution-driven and have dealt with past transitions and large, complex energy projects – are, at best, politely ignored.  This is not how thoughtful, effective strategies are developed. So let me be clear today.  All energy resources will be needed to support a successful transition, and the demonization of our industry is not helping. There are major gaps and real challenges which only our industry can help with. That requires urgent consensus in several areas.   We need consensus on the essential role of oil and gas with lower emissions, working side-by-side with alternatives to meet the rising global call on energy and deliver on net-zero ambitions. We need to embrace new uses for hydrocarbons such as blue hydrogen combined with technologies like CCUS, without which net-zero is unlikely to be reached.  And let us not pretend that what works in developed countries like Norway will work in developing and underdeveloped countries.  But our industry must play its part too. That means listening hard to legitimate concerns, including about our industry, particularly by younger people when they talk of a climate emergency. It means talking freely about scenarios (including ones that could deliver a chance of a 1.5 degree outcome), and the role of EVs, wind, and solar in a sustainable energy future.  And it means intensifying and accelerating the reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from oil and gas as an urgent and strategic priority.  So today I call for a purpose-built global energy transition forum. The precise shape and form will need to be discussed. But it has to allow open debate with all stakeholders and all viewpoints at the table. And it has to bridge the gap between idealism and pragmatism with a practical, stable, and inclusive transition plan, without compromising our climate goals. Ladies and Gentlemen, our industry is not perfect.  We are ready to listen, we are willing to engage, and we are eager to help deliver a truly sustainable energy future, using our industry’s vast experience and skills to bridge the gaps.  Crucially, we are eager to work with every stakeholder and partner, across the energy industry and beyond, on solutions with real impact. We just need an objective and resilient transition plan to guide our collective efforts. Or as Winston Churchill famously said, “Give us the tools and we will finish the job.”  Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) through its Saudi Aramco Asia Company Limited (“SAAC”) subsidiary today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (“Sinopec”) for potential downstream collaboration in China. SAAC and Sinopec also aim to support Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company, Ltd. (“FREP”) in conducting a feasibility study into the optimization and expansion of capacity.  This MoU provides a basis for continued downstream collaboration between Aramco and Sinopec, capitalizing on each company’s strengths and their long-term relationship through existing joint ventures, namely FREP and Sinopec Senmei (Fujian) Petroleum Company (SSPC) in China, and Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company in Saudi Arabia. Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “This MoU represents an exciting new chapter in our long-standing relationship with Sinopec. Such collaborations promote our downstream integration and expansion strategy in Asia and support our broader objectives of becoming a global leader in liquids-to-chemicals and a resilient and reliable supplier of one of the lowest upstream carbon intensity oils  to meet China’s growing demand.” Yu Baocai, President of Sinopec Corporation, said: “Sinopec and Aramco enjoy a long history bookmarked  by numerous examples of successful cooperation which continues to strengthen our strategic relationship. Both companies cooperate in mutually beneficial crude trading, refining and chemical joint ventures, engineering services as well as science and technology research and development. Together such collaboration represents a model of energy cooperation between China and Saudi Arabia. The signing of this MOU will support our refinery feedstock optimization and downstream petrochemical development, while offering new opportunities to deepen and expand activity amid an accelerating global energy transition.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) and an international investor consortium, led by affiliates of BlackRock and Hassana, announced today the successful closing of the lease and leaseback deal previously announced on December 6, 2021. The consortium has acquired 49% stake in Aramco Gas Pipelines Company, a subsidiary of Aramco, for $15.5 billion. The consortium comprises leading institutional investors including, amongst others, Keppel Infrastructure Trust, Silk Road Fund, and China Merchants Capital. This long-term investment by the consortium represents further progress in Aramco’s portfolio optimization program and highlights the strong investment opportunities presented by Aramco’s significant infrastructure assets. It also underlines Aramco’s strong long-term outlook and the appeal of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to leading institutional investors. As part of the transaction, first announced in December 2021, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company and Aramco entered into a 20-year lease and leaseback arrangement in connection with Aramco’s gas pipeline network. Under this arrangement, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company will receive a tariff payable by Aramco for the specified gas products that flow through the network, backed by minimum commitments on throughput. Aramco retains a 51% majority stake in Aramco Gas Pipeline Company, and also retains full ownership and operational control of the gas pipeline network. The transaction does not impose any restrictions on Aramco’s production volumes.  The announcement follows the closing of a $12.4 billion infrastructure transaction in connection with Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipeline network in June 2021. Concurrent with closing of this transaction, Aramco has also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with BlackRock, to explore joint opportunities in future energy transition projects related to low carbon energy infrastructure. The MoU reinforces the relationship with BlackRock, enhancing opportunities for possible future collaborations.  Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “This agreement is our second landmark infrastructure transaction in less than a year and another major step forward in our long-term value creation strategy. The participation of the consortium led by BlackRock and Hassana underlines the appeal of Aramco’s portfolio to leading global investors as Saudi Arabia’s economic transformation builds momentum, requiring a robust energy infrastructure and network that are vital to meet the needs of an expanding industrial sector.  At the same time as Aramco raises gas production and seeks new opportunities in low-carbon energy sources over the next decade, the importance of our energy infrastructure in relation to global energy security and reliability is expected to grow in significance.” Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, said: “We remain focused on maximizing the potential of our assets and assessing new investment opportunities to further enhance our robust balance sheet. The gas infrastructure transaction with BlackRock and Hassana is a testament of the relationship with the global investors and emphasizes gas as a key pillar to grow in domestic and international markets.” Larry Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock, said: “We are pleased to close this landmark transaction and deepen our partnership with Aramco by signing a Memorandum of Understanding to develop low carbon energy infrastructure together. Getting to a net zero world will not happen overnight. It requires us to shift the energy mix in incremental steps to achieve a green energy future. Bold, forward-thinking incumbents like Aramco have the technical expertise and capital to play a crucial role in this transformation, and we look forward to our future collaboration.” Saad A. AlFadly, CEO of Hassana Investment Company, added: “We are delighted to achieve closing of this landmark transaction which highlights our focus to invest in critical infrastructures in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. We look forward to working with our partners at Aramco and BlackRock to make this a successful long-term investment.” Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Royal Highnesses. Your Excellencies. Ladies and Gentlemen. As IPTC Executive Committee Chairman, I am delighted to welcome you to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, to our beautiful capital city, Riyadh and to IPTC 2022! For many of you, this is a return visit to the Kingdom. For others, it may be your first time in Saudi Arabia. Regardless, it is a pleasure and a privilege for Saudi Aramco to host you once again, in what has become this industry’s premier event in the Eastern Hemisphere. I would especially like to offer our deep appreciation to HRH Prince Mohammed Bin Salman Al-Saud, the Crown Prince, for his patronage of our gathering – the second IPTC to be held in the Kingdom. And to HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al-Saud, Minister of Energy, for his enthusiastic participation and unlimited support. And certainly, we thank all of you – our participants – for making this what we hope will be the best IPTC yet. Ladies and gentlemen, when we gathered in Dhahran two years ago – at IPTC 2020 – we spoke of long-range challenges to the industry. How could any of us have imagined the unprecedented challenge the industry – and in fact, the world – was about to face? Over the course of a few short weeks, everything changed. The pandemic rapidly disrupted the global economy, every industry and economic sector, every home and business and virtually every aspect of our lives. It tested our mettle, our resilience, and our ability to innovate and adapt to new norms. It continues to test us. But as I so often remind myself, ours is an industry born of challenge. And as a global recovery works to gain momentum, we gather once again to look at the road ahead, and chart the next steps in our journey. It is a future in which our reliability has never been more important, especially during a period of economic recovery. At the same time, our commitment to sustainability must be just as apparent, just as heartfelt, and just as effective. For each of us – for each of our companies – the journey will be different, but the commitment to innovate and excel is one we must share. And I believe IPTC can be a powerful catalyst in the transformation of commitment to action. For this reason, you will find our program this year is robust. And I am especially grateful to the IPTC Executive Committee and sub-committees for their commitment to make this a forum for true thought leadership. IPTC also depends on countless hours from volunteers and staff around the world. And I would like to thank, once again, all our committee members, volunteers, speakers, exhibitors, and sponsors for their support. They have worked tirelessly to create a unique program this year. Ladies and gentlemen, it is so inspiring to see a hall filled with some of the brightest minds of our industry, especially after what feels like ages apart. We are together again during a historic moment for our industry. We know the world needs us now, perhaps more than ever, to ensure the energy transition leaves no nation behind. It needs our brightest talent and boldest technology to ensure continued economic prosperity, energy security, and environmental sustainability. It is a time when much is asked of this industry, and much is expected. And looking out across this room, I can tell you that I have never been more confident in our ability to deliver. I welcome you all. And I wish you a wonderful IPTC 2022.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBismillah ir-Rahman ir-Rahim.
 
Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen.

It’s a great pleasure to welcome you back to IPTC. 

A lot has happened since IPTC last met in person two years ago.  

A new virus engulfed the world. Whole cities fell silent…

At one point in 2020, half of humanity, 3.9 billion people, were subject to some form of lockdown, and this resulted in the biggest shock to oil demand in our lifetimes.

Over the last two years, our industry has learned the true meaning of resilience.

And for Aramco, it’s a source of immense pride that in spite of all the uncertainty, we maintained exceptionally high rates of reliability, thanks to the incredible efforts of our people. 

One other moment stands out for the company. 

Last year, we set out our ambition to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions, across all the assets we wholly own and operate. 

I want to tell you what that means and also what it doesn’t mean. 

It doesn’t mean that we’re getting out of oil and gas, far from it. 

We intend to remain the world’s top producer.   

Energy transitions take time. 

For instance, after years of impressive growth, there are 10 million electric vehicles on the road. Which is less than 1 percent of the global car fleet.  

And new energy sources themselves depend on materials that can only be produced with hydrocarbons. 

Consider a wind turbine.

The tower is made from steel, the base is concrete, the blades are coated in resins derived from ethylene. 

The trucks and ships that transport those materials run on diesel.

And when the wind isn’t blowing, conventional energy sources make up the shortfall. 

So make no mistake, oil and gas are part of this transition.  We have a vital role to play. And we intend to be in business for a very long time. 

But we are not complacent. 

We have never believed that nothing about this industry has to change. 

Oil and gas will continue to be used for decades to come. Of that I have no doubt. 

But I also have no doubt that high-cost, inefficient, high-carbon intensity producers will not be part of that future. 

And I know which path Aramco intends to take. 

With an Upstream carbon intensity of 10.6 kg of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent, we are amongst the lowest of any major producer in the oil and gas industry today, well ahead of the OGCI’s 2025 target on Upstream Carbon Intensity of 17.0 kg of CO2 emitted per barrel of oil equivalent.

We want to retain and reinforce our leadership position. This is why we’ve set out our net-zero ambition. 

Getting there will require radical innovation, and a lot of advanced technologies, and so we’ve placed huge emphasis on turning Aramco into an ideas factory. 

In 2021 we were granted more than 860 U.S. patents, more than any other energy company.  

We’re rolling out A.I. and advanced data analytics across our biggest production facilities, deploying drones and robotics by air, land and sea, and we’re intensively researching carbon capture, utilization and storage. 

Our CO2 enhanced oil recovery demonstration project at Al-Uthmaniyah can capture and inject up to 800,000 tons-per-year of CO2 for enhanced oil recovery. 

Which is equivalent to taking more than 170,000 passenger cars off the road.

And this is just the start. 

Aramco scientists are also working on developing advanced carbon capture and storage materials, metal organic frameworks and membranes that can separate CO2 from air at lower energy costs.

They hold out the possibility of direct air capture of CO2, removing CO2 directly from the atmosphere, then storing it underground or recycling it into long-lasting materials like concrete.

This is an emerging technology. Mass-deployment may not be possible until the end of this decade. 

But in this industry we do think in decades, not in quarters. 

We think, we plan and we invest for the long-term. 

Which is why we’re also looking at brand new uses for oil and gas. 

With our vast gas resources and high potential for CO2 storage, we want to be a leading player in the new, lower-carbon hydrogen economy.  

In 1939, we shipped our first delivery of oil from Ras Tanura, some 80 years on, we delivered our first shipment of hydrogen in the form of blue ammonia for use in low-carbon power generation in Japan.

So we are excited about lower-carbon synthetic fuels derived from hydrogen and CO2. 

We are working with the world’s best, including engineers at Formula 1, to drive this technology forward.  

Over the course of this conference, we will hear about many other brilliant ideas and solutions. Innovations drawn from right across our industry.

I’m looking forward to it. 

But in concluding ladies and gentlemen, let me say this. 

It’s often assumed that the only thing holding back a net-zero future is a lack of ambition. 

That’s wrong. Our industry has ambition in abundance. 

The truth is that there are still some very complex technology challenges that we haven’t yet solved.  
 
Challenges around energy storage, around essential industrial processes, for which no low-carbon alternatives exist. 

And while others might wave away those challenges, we will confront them, head-on. Because we are an industry of problem-solvers, we are not driven by ideology. We are driven by what works. 

And this is why I have huge confidence in the future of our industry, our capacity to transform, our ability to provide the real energy and real solutions that the world expects.  Thank you again for joining us. I wish you a highly successful conference.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Aston Martin Cognizant Formula One™ Team and Aramco today announced a long-term strategic partnership, which will drive the development of highly efficient internal combustion engines, high-performance sustainable fuels, advanced lubricants and the deployment of non-metallic materials in vehicles.  In addition to joint research and development, the collaboration includes team sponsorship rights, a licensing agreement, as well as exclusive branding and endorsement rights for Aramco fuels and lubricants.  As a result, the team will be known as Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant Formula One™ Team. The alliance complements Aramco’s status as a global strategic sponsor of Formula One – the world’s premier motor racing event with over 1.9 billion fans worldwide. The joint R&D efforts will underpin efforts made by the team to meet Formula One’s target to be powered entirely by sustainable fuels by 2025. Additionally, the partnership will focus on development and commercialization of fuel-efficient engine technologies for road vehicles, and the development of more efficient hybrid engines in motorsport. Lawrence Stroll, Chairman of Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant Formula One™ Team, said: “We are in the sport to win so I am delighted to welcome an incredible partner of the stature of Aramco, who I have learnt from this process has a tremendous amount of intellectual property and technical capability, which I know will greatly assist our team to achieve our goals of winning Formula One world championships. Our historic partnership demonstrates the scale of our ambition to make our team a pioneering and winning force in Formula One and showcase the sustainability and performance of Aramco’s products.” Mohammed Al Qahtani, Senior Vice President Downstream at Aramco, said: “The partnership reflects Aramco’s efforts to reduce emissions in the global automotive and transport industries. Our ambition is to supply premium fuels and lubricants to the global automotive sector, and our tie-up with the Aston Martin team will help drive awareness of our high-quality products. It is an alliance that harnesses our shared commitment to engineering excellence and innovation, and has the potential to deliver winning results both on and off the track.” Martin Whitmarsh, Group Chief Executive Officer of Aston Martin Performance Technologies, said: “Winning in Formula One is all about assembling and managing the right ingredients in the optimal way. Aramco is an innovative company whose ultra high-tech expertise will make a very real and hugely valuable contribution to improving the performance of, and delivering the future success of, Aston Martin Aramco Cognizant Formula One™ Team.” Ahmad Al Khowaiter, Chief Technology Officer at Aramco, said: “We are very excited to collaborate with such a renowned name in the automotive industry to advance motorsports technology. With our combined expertise we have the potential to improve engine performance and reduce emissions, helping lower the carbon footprint of the sport and, eventually, the automotive industry.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today officially announced the launch of Prosperity7 Ventures, a one-billion-dollar Venture Capital fund. The fund has been operational for over a year, but was today launched officially by Aramco Chief Technology Officer Ahmad Al-Khowaiter during the LEAP 22 technology conference in Riyadh.  Prosperity7 is designed as a global financial VC, with a long-term view to support the development of next-generation technologies and business models that will bring prosperity and positive impact on a vast scale.  Aramco Chief Technology Officer Ahmad Al-Khowaiter, said: “Through the breadth of the Saudi Aramco ecosystem, its vast resources, and its far-reaching footprint across geographies and sectors, Prosperity7 can present unparalleled opportunities for scalability and impact.  This potential would be instrumental in creating stronger foundations for success for its portfolio companies.”  The fund supports exceptional entrepreneurs in building transformative companies striving to solve some of the world’s most pressing challenges. Prosperity7 will support building long-lasting partnerships, providing quality mentorship, and access to a network of leading companies, venture capital firms, and market experts worldwide.  The fund identifies ground-breaking companies with exceptional leadership in diverse industries which are deploying disruptive technologies with the ability to scale and transform. Investments include early-stage enterprise, blockchain, financial and industrial technologies, healthcare, and education solutions. It is headquartered in Dhahran, with offices in Palo Alto, New York, Beijing, and Shanghai. The fund is named after Dammam Well-7, the first oil well to strike commercial oil in Saudi Arabia, also known as the ‘Prosperity Well’.  Building on a corporate heritage that has been bookmarked by explorers and entrepreneurs, Prosperity7 continues the tradition of turning big ideas into realities.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco’s supply chain resilience has been further enhanced by the signing of 50 new Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) at the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) Forum and Exhibition. The 6th edition of the event was inaugurated by HRH Prince Saud bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Prince of the Eastern Province, in the presence of HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Minister of Energy and HRH Ahmed bin Fahd Al Saud, Deputy Governor of the Eastern Province, and HE Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan, Chairman of Aramco’s Board of Directors.  Progress in the Company’s flagship business continuity initiative is being showcased at the three-day gathering, which runs from January 24 to 26 at Dhahran EXPO, in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The iktva program aims to drive domestic value creation, maximize long-term economic growth and diversification, and build a world-class supply chain that facilitates the development of a diverse, sustainable and a globally competitive energy sector in the Kingdom, at a time when global supply chains have been disrupted by the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of iktva, 59% of Aramco’s spending in 2021 was directed to domestic suppliers, up from 35% in 2015 when the program was launched.
Held under the theme ‘Paving the way to economic success’, the iktva forum highlights how partnerships with some of the world’s top energy, logistics, and manufacturing companies continue to enhance the domestic commercial ecosystem and enable the reliable supply of energy to the world. The forum will also recognize the outstanding achievements of Aramco’s program partners across 10 categories, which include overall iktva performance, training, Saudization, female representation, supplier development, and exports. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “It wasn’t possible to predict the pandemic, but iktva helped prepare us for the uncertainties it caused. Our investment in a diversified network of suppliers has helped us maintain a track record of reliability, despite the ongoing impact of COVID-19 on global supply chains. The iktva program continues to prove its value by contributing to an increasingly vibrant, dynamic and business-friendly environment in Saudi Arabia.”  The iktva program has helped establish a competitive industrial base, resulting in exports to more than 40 countries. Meanwhile, local content requirements embedded in thousands of contracts have contributed more than $100 billion to the national economy. At the same time, iktva has attracted more than 540 investments to Saudi Arabia from 35 countries. Innovation and sustainability are essential components of the iktva model, which embraces new technologies, encourages more efficient logistics networks and emphasizes the Circular Carbon Economy framework. Cybersecurity is another program priority, ensuring both Aramco and its network of suppliers and contractors have robust protections in place to defend against emerging threats and safeguard business continuity.  Major signings include: 2022 iktva award winners: Highest overall iktva performance  Best in training and development  Best in supplier development Best in Saudization Best in female employment Best in exportsMedia contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBismillah ir-Rahman ir-Rahim. Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen,  It was exactly 23 months ago today that I spoke at the opening ceremony of the last IKTVA Forum and Exhibition. Much has happened since then – including probably more virtual meetings than most of us ever imagined we would attend in our lifetimes! As such, it is a tremendous pleasure to welcome you in person to IKTVA 2022.Let me begin by stating the obvious…  First, IKTVA is a great success. Since the program was launched in 2015, local content in Aramco’s supply chain has increased from 35% to almost 60% at the last count. Creating a more efficient, a more reliable, and stronger supply chain for the Company. Second, IKTVA is also proving to be a winning proposition – not just for Aramco, but for all involved. For the many local and international participants, IKTVA is creating new and expanded business and investment opportunities in the Kingdom, including opportunities beyond petroleum. To date, IKTVA investments have attracted an estimated capex of $7 billion.  This in turn is helping create a competitive industrial base in the Kingdom that is now exporting to more than 40 countries. For our local communities, IKTVA is delivering value in the form of career opportunities and training options for Saudis. Again, the numbers speak for themselves… IKTVA-related employment of Saudis has increased by 50%, meaning one out of every four people working in Aramco’s supply chain is now a Saudi. The percentage of females working in our supply chain has also increased, more than doubling.  Meanwhile, the establishment of National Training Centers has already resulted in some 33,000 Saudis graduating with new skills. And these centers are on track to produce tens of thousands of more trainees for the local labor market by 2030. For our country as a whole, IKTVA is providing a number of broad benefits, with achievements including, but not limited to improving in-Kingdom capabilities – with everything from drilling chemicals to non-metallic rebar – now being manufactured here for the first time. A great example of an IKTVA-driven achievement is the establishment of a hub to pioneer new technologies and services in the non-metallic industry, which is expected to contribute an estimated $10 billion to the Kingdom’s GDP by 2030. Indeed, IKTVA is providing a catalyst for innovation within the Kingdom, with Aramco suppliers having, so far, quadrupled their R&D spend in the Kingdom, from $21 million to $91 million. IKTVA is also contributing to the development of anchor projects like the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services and the King Salman Energy Park. Simply put, IKTVA is resulting in a rise in both the volume and the variety of products that are now ‘Made in Saudi Arabia’. Indeed, the localization of goods and services through IKTVA is creating an ecosystem that is delivering critical support to the Kingdom’s industrialization efforts.  This in turn is helping our country meet many other goals outlined by Vision 2030.  Now, as you know, Vision 2030 is crucial to our nation’s long-term prosperity and sustainable development. Announced in 2016, by His Royal Highness the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Vision 2030 provides a unique roadmap to our future.  A roadmap that is transforming the Kingdom’s economy. Making it more dynamic by creating multiple economic engines in addition to our already strong energy sector.  Some of the key goals under Vision 2030 include economic diversification, industrialization and employment creation. All of this and more is being achieved by following an integrated approach with a parallel focus on both conventional and emerging business sectors.  The conventional sector, in which the Kingdom holds world-class strategic advantages, includes energy as well as chemicals and mining. Meanwhile, the emerging sector includes exciting Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies, along with logistics, industry and services.  Clearly, the Kingdom’s industrialization is an important part of the Vision 2030. What is also clear is that IKTVA is serving to support not only Vision 2030, but also the world’s energy security. Indeed, having a reliable and efficient supply chain is critical for a company like Aramco and absolutely vital for all economies, including the Kingdom. In fact, it is hard to imagine any economy today being successful without access to dependable suppliers. And as the world has seen firsthand, any disruption along any supply chain can have a negative domino effect. Fortunately, we have IKTVA contributing to the Kingdom’s resilience. And we continue to pursue ways to make increased localization even more attractive going forward.  One recent example is the creation of Aramco Namaat, which is enabling our partners to leverage a range of opportunities and incentives through the Kingdom’s Shareek program. In closing, I want to congratulate all the participants in IKTVA – whether they are local companies or global corporations – for the many achievements to date.  I also want to say thank you, as IKTVA since its inception has contributed an estimated $100 billion into Saudi Arabia’s economy.  Last and most importantly, I want to encourage all of you to use this year’s IKTVA as a springboard to expand your operations even further. And to take advantage of the many investment options being created by Vision 2030, by IKTVA, by programs like Shareek.  There has never been a better time to do even more business here in the Kingdom. The invitation to all of you is open.  The opportunities out there are enormous.  The possibilities available are many.  And the potential benefits to you and your companies are great. On that note, let me wish you all a highly productive conference.  Thank you for joining us. And thank you for continuing to make IKTVA a tremendous success story.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comLadies and gentlemen, as I’m sure everyone here knows – IKTVA is a program that is very dear to my heart. Over the years, I’ve spoken of IKTVA’s progress and its challenges.  Of obstacles and opportunities. … Of the value of resilience. But more than words, the Covid pandemic has proven beyond any doubt the true value of a “Made in KSA” supply chain. In fact, this is the second time we have witnessed this in real-time. First, following the attacks on Abqaiq and Khurais. … Where the quick response of our supply chain enabled a rapid recovery that surprised the world. And now, with a pandemic that is not yet behind us, we see the resilience we have created play out over years … not just days or weeks. In many ways, IKTVA has weathered storm after storm, and it continues to prove that its structure is sound. …  Its foundation is strong.   Our progress to-date proves this. But ladies and gentlemen, history will not judge us by the quality of the foundation we have built.  Many years from now, it will ask, “Does the structure still stand?” “Did they finish what they started?”  I am here today to tell you that we must finish what we have started.   Because the stakes have never been higher.  I know the past two years have been extremely difficult … and put tremendous pressure on your businesses. … From the oldest and the largest companies, to the youngest start-ups.   But I want you to understand the crucial role you play … in the future of billions around the world who depend on this industry, and on Aramco.   We know that energy is the lifeblood of modern civilization.  And as the energy transition unfolds, oil and gas will remain essential in many ways. …Yet, this is not the popular narrative … which is built on un-realistic assumptions.  We are already seeing signs of an energy crisis in some parts of the world due to lack of investments.   Let me be very clear.  Aramco will never compromise on our reliability …  Because we will never back down from our responsibility.  In our deepest DNA, we honor a commitment to the billions around the world who depend on us.  And to “walk the talk” of words like “sustainability” and “reliability” and “responsibility” – you have to back that up with investment. …  You have to deliver on what you started. Just look at our progress with unconventional gas at Jafurah – with an estimated 200 trillion standard cubic feet of gas in place. … Many doubted us. Or in crude-to-chemicals, or non-metallic materials, or innovations in fuels and lubes and engine technology.  Or how we are working at the cutting edge of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. But by any measure – and in any ambition – Aramco is only as strong as our supply chain.  So, we need IKTVA partners who share our sense of responsibility … and are equally ambitious about the future. …  And for those rising to meet the challenge, there are significant opportunities.   At the Forum this year, you will learn of more than 180 investment opportunities across 12 sectors to bridge a market gap of 15-billion dollars annually.  But we must also share a commitment to constant innovation.  In 2021, Aramco was among the Top-50 companies and universities in the world being granted U.S. patents.  Five years ago, we were not even in the Top-300.   And innovation must extend through every link of the supply chain.    As you know, the Kingdom has announced its goal of Net-Zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2060.  And Aramco has committed to achieve Net-Zero by 2050.   IKTVA partners must share our passion for sustainability and strengthen ESG performance. At the same time, cyber-resilience is required to withstand one of our most serious threats.  So, IKTVA is incorporating both ESG and Cybersecurity domains to ensure we work as a true ecosystem. …    Because if there is one thing I am absolutely certain of …  It is that, regardless of what the future holds … we are stronger when we stand together. Ladies and gentlemen, although IKTVA remains a “work-in-progress” … it is also work that has made tremendous progress.   I wish to thank His Excellency, Yasir Al-Rumayyan, and the members of Aramco’s Board of Directors for their unwavering support of IKTVA every step of the way. Additionally, His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, Minister of Energy, his Ministry team, and all those within the government who are determined to make Saudi Arabia one of the brightest examples of localization in the 21st century.   With their support, we must work harder to finish what we have started. With a foundation of localization …  And resilience as our blueprint …  We are building an ecosystem of critical importance.   One that will strengthen the resilience and diversification of the Kingdom’s economy …  And one that will ensure we meet our responsibility to the world, and the billions who depend on us.   For all these reasons, we must craft it with care. … With the belief that generations from now, what we are building will still be standing strong.  Let us work together, and finish what we have started. Thank you, and I wish you a wonderful Forum.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced the signing of one agreement and nine Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with leading Korean entities, which aim to advance its downstream strategy and support development of low-carbon energy solutions, while creating new financing options for the Company. The agreements were announced on the sidelines of a meeting between HRH Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, and the President of the Republic of Korea, H.E. Moon Jae-in. The signings took place at the Saudi-Korean Investment Forum in Riyadh, an event hosted by Saudi Arabia’s Ministry of Investment which was also attended by the President of the Republic of Korea, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, and senior corporate executives from both countries. Local manufacturing of industrial equipment
Aramco signed an agreement with Korea’s Doosan Heavy Industries & Construction Company and the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investments Company, Dussur. This partnership aims to establish a casting and forging facility that could supply the Kingdom’s manufacturers with industrial and process equipment such as valves, pumps, compressors, wellheads, flanges, heat exchangers, and gas and wind turbines, with the objective to enhance local content. The planned joint venture has a production target of 60,000 tons per year, primarily from sand-casting and open-die forging processes, complemented by machining capabilities. It also has potential to supply original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) in the rig, drilling, maritime and engine fields, with the possibility of expanding to the wider GCC market. Low-carbon energy solutions
The agreements also include MoUs with Korean energy companies KEPCO, S-Oil, POSCO, Hyundai Oilbank, H2Korea and LOTTE Fine Chemical to explore potential collaboration in the supply, transportation, utilization and certification of hydrogen and ammonia. The companies also plan to study the feasibility of converting exported ammonia into hydrogen – a process known as ammonia back-cracking. This represents a first step towards a potential large-scale production facility for hydrogen and ammonia in Saudi Arabia, which would also include a Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) facility. Finance solutions
The Company also signed a Heads of Terms agreement with the Export-Import Bank of Korea (K-EXIM) to explore strategic financing solutions in support of the Company’s business and investment activities involving Korean companies. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “Our partnership with Korean companies spans decades and today we are pleased to broaden these ties in technology, manufacturing and finance. In addition to focusing on cutting-edge development in a range of areas, they also support our shared goal of finding climate solutions and lowering greenhouse gas emissions through the development of low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia production, as well as carbon capture and storage. Together, these initiatives with Korea’s industry leaders will further enhance our downstream expansion and integration strategy.” The agreements seek to deepen collaboration between Aramco and leading Korean companies to unlock new opportunities in the fields of advanced technology, manufacturing and finance, illustrating Aramco’s commitment to driving development through global partnerships. The following agreement in the field of construction was signed: The following MoUs in the field of technology were signed: The following MoUs in the field of finance and investments were signed:Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood morning, and thank you very much.  Ladies and gentlemen, I must tell you that Warsaw – with your beautiful Old Town and rich history – is a city I have long wished to visit. So, to join you as we mark this important agreement is a tremendous privilege. I must admit, however, I always imagined myself visiting Warsaw in June, not in January!  But I’m happy to say the winter weather is more than offset by the warmth of our reception.  So, we thank you for your hospitality.  My long admiration for Poland – and the Polish people – is driven by this nation’s incredible resilience. Its history of reinvention.  And this is important, because we in the oil and gas industry find ourselves at a point of transformation, where resilience and reinvention have never been more important.   At Aramco, we are re-imagining the future of Downstream, and the value it will bring, not only to our business, but to the world.   Our goal is to build a chemicals business that is a global leader, on-par with our position in oil.  And our acquisition of a 70-percent stake in SABIC has been key, creating integrated solutions from crude oil supplies, refined products and chemicals, to lubricants and advanced non-metallic materials. Today, we are proud to announce our partnership with PKN Orlen, which marks another very important step in this journey.  Our relationship with Orlen began in 2016, with crude oil sales that marked Aramco’s entry into the Baltic market, and Orlen’s first long-term contract with a supplier from the Gulf region.  That relationship has grown, and the partnership we announce today will see Aramco and Orlen working together, in a variety of ways, to bring value and innovation to Poland’s energy market. Through this partnership agreement, Aramco will acquire a 30% equity interest in Gdansk Refinery, a 100% equity interest in the associated wholesale business, and a 50% equity interest in a jet fuel marketing joint venture with BP.Alongside the partnership agreement, we are signing a Memorandum of Understanding between Aramco, SABIC and Orlen, through which we will explore petrochemical opportunities in Poland and Central and Eastern Europe, including a focus on liquids-to-chemicals pathways. Additionally, an MoU is being signed between Aramco and Orlen to explore numerous opportunities in Research and Development. Aramco is already one of the largest integrated refiners in the world, and this partnership bolsters our strong position with the placement of up to 400 MBD of Arabian crude oil into Orlen’s system, serving a vibrant Polish energy market. Moreover, it’s a partnership that simply makes good sense. Aramco brings to the table a commitment to reliability that has been forged over nearly 90 years of service to our customers around the world.  Through SABIC, we are pursuing game-changing opportunities in petrochemicals. We are driving technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution to enhance value and increase safety. And we have prioritized sustainability, not just through the low carbon intensity of our oil and advanced R&D, but through our Net-Zero ambitions going forward. And all of these efforts perfectly complement the strengths and ambitions being brought to the table by our colleagues at Orlen. This partnership moves our companies forward on many fronts.  So, I would like to thank our colleagues at Orlen, as well as the team from SABIC, for their extraordinary efforts to bring this deal, and these MoUs, to reality. Especially in light of the many challenges related to COVID-19 restrictions. In fact, while today is symbolic of a new phase in our partnership, we hope we can come together again with an even bigger event in a few months, once all the formalities and approvals are in place.  But we wanted to join you in-person today, for a very simple reason. In a city that has taught the world so much about resilience, it is meaningful that we come together here, to build the resilience of our businesses and our industry in a powerful way.  
Thank you, once again, for your hospitality.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”), the world’s largest integrated energy and chemicals company, is expanding its global downstream presence with investments in Poland’s refining, wholesale, and jet fuel marketing segments. The Company has agreed to acquire equity stakes of 30% in a 210,000 barrels per day refinery in Gdansk; 100% in an associated wholesale business; and 50% in a jet fuel marketing joint venture with BP. The acquisitions will be made from Polish refiner and fuel retailer PKN Orlen following its proposed merger with Grupa Lotos. Completion of the transaction is subject to regulatory approvals, including from the European Commission.  The investments will widen Aramco’s presence in the European downstream sector and further expand its crude imports into Poland, which aligns with PKN Orlen’s strategy of diversifying its energy supplies. In addition to the investments, Aramco has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with PKN Orlen and SABIC, one of the world’s largest petrochemicals companies, to explore joint opportunities in Poland and elsewhere in Central and Eastern Europe. Another MoU was signed by Aramco and PKN Orlen which focuses on exploring potential opportunities for research and development. Mohammed Al Qahtani, Aramco Senior Vice-President of Downstream, said: “These acquisitions will support the diversification of Aramco’s product portfolio across the hydrocarbon value chain — including a focus on liquids-to-chemicals pathways. Our expanding global network of refineries and chemical joint ventures allows us to reach new markets with our products, and strategically place crude oil volumes across different geographies. Our business objectives for oil and chemicals are closely aligned with PKN Orlen, and we are exploring additional opportunities in the European petrochemicals market, as well as in R&D.” Daniel Obajtek, President of the PKN Orlen Management Board said: “This is an historic day for the Polish energy industry. The completion of the merger is an opportunity to ensure high-quality crude oil supplies to Poland from Aramco. This is a key stage in building a strong multi-utility group that delivers diversified and reliable energy to Poland. Such international partnerships are essential for building the largest multi-utility group in this part of Europe.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and the China Building Materials Academy (CBMA) announce the launch of NEXCEL, a new Nonmetallic Excellence and Innovation Center to further advance the use of nonmetallic materials in the building and construction sector. The center was launched today at an event in Beijing, where the center will be located. NEXCEL will leverage CBMA’s expertise and resources to promote the development and application of nonmetallic technologies that offer superior lifecycle cost, efficiency and environmental advantages over their metal alternatives. The new center of excellence joins the Aramco launched NIC: Nonmetallic Innovation Centre at The Welding Institute (TWI) in Cambridge, UK; and, NEx: A Center of Excellence for Nonmetallic Building Materials at the American Concrete Institute (ACI) Headquartered in Michigan, USA. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Senior Vice President of Technical Services at Aramco, said: “We are excited to be part of this important initiative with the China Building Materials Academy, to jointly advance the use of nonmetallics in building and construction in China. At Aramco, we have been developing and deploying nonmetallic solutions within our own operations for more than 20 years as they offer superior lifecycle cost, efficiency and environmental advantages over their metal alternatives. Given the advantages of nonmetallics, we believe that this new Center of Excellence for Nonmetallic Building Materials will catalyze a wide range of exciting new opportunities.” Zhan Yanjing, Vice President of the China National Building Material Group (CNBM), said: “It is my honor to witness this historic strategic cooperation with Aramco. The partnership represents our long-term collaboration and mutual trust, and it is also an important measure to build green, low carbon solutions.  As an important platform for CNBM’s technological innovation, CBMA is the largest and strongest research center in the field of nonmetallic in China. CBMA will provide great support to NEXCEL, and create an open and innovative environment, helping NEXCEL make greater contributions to global sustainable development.” For more than two decades, Aramco has been leveraging its technology leadership to develop and adopt nonmetallic solutions in its oil and gas operations and Aramco is driving the development of a suite of nonmetallic solutions through global collaborations with prominent academic institutions, research and technology organizations, manufacturers, and industry leaders such as the China Building Materials Academy.  NEXCEL will promote the development and application of nonmetallic technologies by exploring opportunities for joint projects in research and development, standards development and adoption, professional development and certifications, advocacy and international outreach. The Center will also create a global collaboration platform to expand and accelerate the use of nonmetallic materials to improve sustainability, contribute to a lower carbon footprint, and enhance the durability and longevity of structures. As a leading R&D center, CBMA has excellent technical resources, including eight professional Scientific Research Institutes, seven state and industrial key laboratories, and 23 national standardization technical committees. CBMA has been recognized as the “Base for International Sci&Tech Cooperation" by the Chinese government and has conducted extensive co-operation with over 100 countries.  CBMA has established strategic partnerships with many international academic institutions, certification bodies and enterprises, and has launched a variety of similar initiatives with international organizations, such as the UNIDO International Center for Materials Technology Promotion, the Asia Pacific Partnership on Clean Development and Climate (APP), the Cement Task Force, and the APP Centre of Excellence, as well as the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) China Office, and these initiatives have made great contributions to the low-carbon and sustainable development of the building materials sector globally.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) and Advanced Electronics Company (“AEC”), a SAMI company, are collaborating to promote the localization of digital businesses in Saudi Arabia. The two companies have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to accelerate the Kingdom’s digital ecosystem development. The partnership aims to support wider efforts to enable Internet of Things (IoT) technologies, computing and communication, robotics, drones, and semiconductors that complement the expansion of the digital ecosystem at large in the Kingdom. Aramco has included the Industrial Digital Business (IDB) under the industrial investment program, Aramco Namaat, which aims to complement the establishment of various digital hubs in Saudi Arabia. The program aims to maximize local content, contribute to GDP growth, create new jobs, accelerate digital talent development, and enhance Aramco’s reliability and operational efficiency.   Ahmad Al Sa’adi, Aramco SVP Technical Services, said: “This partnership aims to help us to develop technologies and local talent as we work with leading technology providers to add value to the company and wider economy.”  Ziad Al-Musallam, AEC President and CEO, said: “The cooperation with Aramco is expected to contribute to the efficiency and value of the supply chains in the industrial digital businesses, especially at the engineering, manufacturing, and services level, across many systems and products used in the ICT, security, and energy sectors.” The program is designed to drive increased investment, economic diversification, job creation and workforce development within the Kingdom.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) in collaboration with Indian conglomerate Larsen & Toubro (L&T) is developing manufacturing capabilities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The companies have signed a Memorandum of Understanding outlining collaboration on L&T’s efforts to establish the region’s first Heavy Wall Pressure Vessels facility at Saudi Arabia’s strategically located Jubail Industrial City. The MoU is in line with the Aramco Namaat program, launched in September, which aims to tap into the vast opportunities available in Saudi Arabia to create value, as well as drive economic expansion and diversification. Ahmed Sa’adi, Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Technical Services, said: “This manufacturing facility, once completed, will provide a large number of skilled job opportunities for Saudi youth, localize the “know how” of heavy wall vessels in the Kingdom, and deploy the latest manufacturing technologies to serve the Kingdom and MENA region. We expect this facility to help Aramco and others in the Kingdom to increase localization and optimize capital cost.” Mr. S. N. Subrahmanyan, L&T’s CEO, said: “We believe this is another significant milestone for L&T in the Kingdom and a strong testimony to our commitment to the development of the region. We wish to express our gratitude to Saudi Aramco for their guidance and support in the Kingdom.” L&T is due to start construction of the new facility imminently, with production expected to commence by Q3 2022. Spread over an area of 120,000 square meters, the facility aims to produce critical equipment for several industries, including the power and oil and gas sectors.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) has signed a $15.5 billion lease and leaseback deal involving its gas pipeline network with a consortium led by BlackRock Real Assets (“BlackRock”) and Hassana Investment Company (“Hassana”), the investment management arm of the General Organization for Social Insurance (GOSI) in Saudi Arabia, in one of the world’s largest energy infrastructure deals.   This represents significant progress in Aramco’s asset optimization program and is the second such infrastructure transaction by Aramco this year after the closing of the oil pipeline infrastructure deal earlier in June 2021. Upon completion of the gas pipeline transaction, Aramco will receive upfront proceeds of $15.5 billion, further strengthening its balance sheet. The deal unlocks additional value from Aramco’s diverse asset base and has attracted interest from a wide range of worldwide investors, highlighting the compelling investment opportunity.  As part of the transaction, a newly-formed subsidiary, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company, will lease usage rights in Aramco’s gas pipelines network and lease them back to Aramco for a 20-year period. In return, Aramco Gas Pipelines Company will receive a tariff payable by Aramco for the gas products that will flow through the network, backed by minimum commitments on throughput. Aramco will hold a 51% majority stake in Aramco Gas Pipeline Company and sell a 49% stake to investors led by BlackRock and Hassana.  Aramco will continue to retain full ownership and operational control of its gas pipeline network and the transaction will not impose any restrictions on Aramco’s production volumes. Aramco is fully committed to sustainable practices and is an industry leader in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which are among the lowest in the sector.  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “Today, we have reached yet another major milestone in our portfolio optimization program as we build towards a bigger and stronger gas business. It further underscores our commitment to long-term value creation for our shareholders, while bringing in BlackRock and Hassana as partners demonstrates our unique value proposition and ability to attract leading global investors to Saudi Arabia. With gas expected to play a key role in the global transition to a more sustainable energy future, our partners will benefit from a deal tied to a world-class gas infrastructure asset.” The announcement follows a $12.4 billion lease and leaseback transaction concluded in June with a consortium led by EIG Global Energy Partners, which involved Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipeline network. Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, said: “Our gas pipeline assets are critical and growing, and highly integrated with the rest of Aramco’s oil and gas facilities. We are pleased that we are concluding the second transaction, seeking long term partners who understand and appreciate the industry. This transaction represents the largest energy infrastructure deal in the region to date and exemplifies Aramco’s unique positioning as a partner for prominent global institutional investors.” Larry Fink, Chairman and CEO of BlackRock, said: “BlackRock is pleased to work with Saudi Aramco and Hassana on this landmark transaction for Saudi Arabia’s infrastructure. Aramco and Saudi Arabia are taking meaningful, forward-looking steps to transition the Saudi economy toward renewables, clean hydrogen, and a net zero future. Responsibly-managed natural gas infrastructure has a meaningful role to play in this transition.” Saad Al-Fadly, CEO of Hassana Investment Company, added: "Hassana is delighted to be part of this landmark transaction and the associated world-class assets. We are particularly excited about this deal as it comes in line with Hassana’s strategy to create enduring value for GOSI and further strengthen our long-lasting partnerships with strong and reputable players such as Aramco and BlackRock.” Mark Florian, Managing Director, BlackRock Real Assets, said: “We look forward to partnering with Aramco and leading the equity consortium in this deal involving Aramco’s gas pipeline network. The strongly contracted nature of this investment is a core part of our investment philosophy and represents an attractive opportunity for our clients who are seeking portfolio diversification through infrastructure.”  The gas pipeline transaction is expected to close as soon as practicable, subject to customary closing conditions, including any required merger control and related approvals.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen, good morning. 

It feels very special to be back in Houston, in person, at last. And see partners and friends re-connecting, re-energizing, and re-examining the future of energy.

Before we look ahead, I would like to congratulate the WPC for recognizing the contributions of Dr. Dan Yergin with their highest honor – the Dewhurst Award. 

And, if Dan will allow me, I would like to use the title of one of his books as the theme of my remarks today. Because, Ladies and Gentlemen, I believe our industry has a new quest before us.  

Right now, the world is facing an ever more chaotic energy transition. Several highly unrealistic scenarios and assumptions about the future of energy are clouding the picture. 

For example, it is increasingly assumed that the entire world can run on alternatives, and the vast global energy system can be totally transformed, virtually overnight. 

Or that investments requiring roughly 115 trillion dollars will be made in less than 30 years. Most worrying of all is the assumption that the right transition strategy is in place. 

It is not, it is deeply flawed. 

Energy security, economic development, and affordability imperatives are clearly not receiving enough attention.  Until they are, and unless the glaring gaps in the transition strategy are fixed, the chaos will only intensify. So the urgent new quest for our industry is to chart a course that will continue to realistically meet the world’s rising energy needs – reliably, affordably, and sustainably.This is not about changing our climate goals. I know that everyone in this room, at Aramco, and across our industry, is fully committed to a net-zero economy.  And everyone on the planet has a vested interest in the ultimate goal of limiting temperature rise to well below two degrees. It is about how we get there. Because, as President John Adams famously said, “Facts are stubborn things.” There are several stubborn facts that need to be part of a credible transition strategy, and today I will share the top three. The first is that alternatives are nowhere near ready to carry a big enough load, so new and existing energy sources will need to operate in parallel for a long time.  More than 99% of the world’s vehicle fleet is still conventional. Despite a lot of good work underway, there are still no truly viable alternatives to conventional fuels in aviation, shipping, and even trucking. When it comes to petrochemical feedstock and lubricants, even the most aggressive transition plans still offer few alternatives.  And the combined share of solar and wind in the world’s primary energy mix is still less than 2%. Do not mistake me – alternatives are making progress, and we welcome that. But their deployment at scale, across the world, will take a lot longer than is being assumed.  And it does not help when the pressure is mounting to stop all new investments in oil and gas. Across the industry, upstream capex fell by more than 50 percent between 2014 and last year, from 700 billion dollars to 300 billion.  Consequently, supplies have started to lag. This is also hurting spare oil production capacity, which is declining sharply. Yet this is happening against the backdrop of healthy demand growth.  Second, the rest of the world will not transition at the same speed as the developed world.  Because the developing world is where most of humanity lives, and most of the roughly 2 billion new energy consumers on the planet by 2050 will be living there too.  It is where more than 2.6 billion people still do not have access to clean cooking, and three quarters of a billion lack electricity. And it is where people aspire to ride on two wheels, not four.   So affordability is a real issue, and a one-size-fits-all strategy will not cut it in a multi-speed, multi-source transition.  Third, because oil and gas will be needed for decades to come, accelerating the reduction in their emissions is a strategic and urgent necessity for climate goals to be met.  We are not short of opportunities, such as:  And there is currently no credible course towards the climate goals that does not include Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage. These are not empty words. Some of the greatest climate protection can be added in these areas, in short order, without hurting those who can afford it least. Our industry has not been waiting for the starting gun. But we must spare no effort to accelerate delivery. That would be a powerful display of walking the talk.  We can be change makers at the transition strategy and planning table, not noise makers. And it would demonstrate our fundamental role in people’s everyday lives for decades to come. There is one more thing that can no longer remain unsaid.   A majority of key stakeholders agree with these realities as much as they believe in addressing climate change. We know this, because they say so in private.  They should say it publicly too. I understand their dilemma. Publicly admitting that oil and gas will play an essential and significant role, during the transition and beyond, will be hard for some.  But admitting this reality will be far easier than dealing with energy insecurity, rampant inflation, and social unrest if prices become intolerably high. And net-zero commitments by countries may start to unravel.  I do not have all the answers, no-one does. But I do know that stopping all new investments in oil and gas is not one of them. I know that the world will only transition successfully if a stable, practical, and inclusive strategy is in place. I know that we urgently need a process of genuinely global engagement that includes these stubborn facts in discussions, with all stakeholders playing their part.  And while there may be pushback on my remarks, I know that if we do not speak out as an industry, no-one else will on our behalf. Ladies and Gentlemen, it is time for these stubborn facts to be heard loud and clear around the world before it is too late.  So let us embrace this urgent new quest as an industry, and accelerate our collective efforts in every domain.  For the sake of our planet, our economies, our investors, our shareholders, and billions of our consumers around the world.  Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco has partnered with F1 in Schools, a global Science, Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) challenge, to roll out the competition in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Some of the country’s brightest young minds will have the opportunity to compete in the challenge, which involves designing and manufacturing a miniature racing car using computer-aided design and manufacturing tools. The contest is open to government and private school students aged 9 to 19, working in teams of three to six, and the top team in Saudi Arabia will go through to the Aramco F1 in Schools World Finals, being held in 2022 in the UK. More than 26,000 schools in over 50 countries will be competing to reach the world finals. Aramco, which became a title sponsor of the F1 in Schools world finals last year, is supporting its introduction to Saudi Arabia as part of the Company’s efforts to promote education, foster a culture of innovation and creativity, and accelerate human potential. The Saudi team selected for the national finals will be supported by the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (Ithra), Aramco’s flagship corporate citizenship initiative, as well as the Technology Advancement and Prototyping Center at King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM). Talal Marri, General Manager Public Affairs, said: “Aramco’s first year partnering with F1 in Schools showed us firsthand the passion many students have for creativity and innovation, as they harness the fields of engineering, design and more to develop their projects. This is why we felt compelled to cultivate that same passion here in the Kingdom, by encouraging students to take on their peers from around the world.” The F1 in Schools program is initially being rolled out in the Eastern Province, with plans to expand it to other cities in Kingdom next year. For more details about the F1 in Schools competition, visit www.f1inschools.com.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced its entry into Saudi Arabia’s domestic lubricants market, offering consumers a new line of lubricant products under the ORIZON® brand. Aramco timed the ORIZON® launch to coincide with the inaugural Saudi Arabian Formula 1 Grand Prix in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia. Aramco is a global sponsor of Formula 1. Aramco has introduced the ORIZON® product line in more than 20 cities including Riyadh, Jeddah and Dammam with more locations planned. ORIZON® products include synthetic and semi-synthetic lubricants for gasoline engines and heavy-duty diesel engines, as well as driveline products, greases and brake fluids. The company has also expanded the brand to include ORIZONPRO which is a high-performance line for the industrial sector. Aramco Vice President of Fuels, Yasser M. Mufti, said: “Entering the lubricants market is an important milestone for the company, as we continue to expand our presence throughout the downstream value chain. ORIZON® products leverage Aramco’s extensive capabilities in research and development, making them a quality line of lubricants that boosts the local market offering and enhances consumer choice. The launch of ORIZON® further complements Aramco’s presence in the Kingdom’s downstream direct-to-consumer segment, following the inauguration of our first two service stations in Riyadh and Saihat recently.” The company’s ORIZON® products are engineered to the highest standards and meet the latest lubricant specifications required by Original Equipment Manufacturers. Aramco aims to become a trusted solution provider of choice for superior lubricants in the consumer market.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced the signing of five agreements with leading French companies, including an agreement to explore a hydrogen-powered vehicle business with Gaussin, a pioneer in clean and intelligent transport solutions. Signing of the agreements took place during an event in Jeddah, organized by the Ministry of Investment to explore investment opportunities for French companies in Saudi Arabia. The event was attended by H.E. Khalid Al Falih, Minister of Investment of Saudi Arabia and H.E. Franck Riester, Minister Delegate for Foreign Trade and Economic Attractiveness of France, along with Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser.  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “This partnership is a continuation of Aramco’s long-standing relationship with a number of leading French companies. It represents an opportunity to promote hydrogen as a low-carbon solution, not just for motorsport, but eventually for mass transportation as well. Such collaboration helps us to advance economic growth in the Kingdom as part of the Namaat industrial investment program and takes us a step closer to our shared vision of a more sustainable future.” Gaussin-Aramco Agreement The agreement between Aramco and Gaussin aims to establish a modern manufacturing facility for on-road and off-road hydrogen powered vehicles in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. As a first step, Gaussin and Aramco will study the feasibility of a manufacturing facility and a hydrogen distribution business to serve the Middle East region. The two companies also agreed that Aramco’s Advanced Innovation Center (LAB7) will be closely involved in Gaussin’s development of hydrogen-powered vehicles and the development of a remote controlled/autonomous hydrogen racing truck. LAB7 aims to integrate Aramco’s composite materials into Gaussin’s existing range of products to reduce the weight, energy consumption and cost of these vehicles.  Aramco will also be sponsoring the world’s first hydrogen-fueled racing truck, which has been developed by Gaussin and which will compete in the 2022 Dakar Rally in Saudi Arabia. Aramco’s sponsorship of Gaussin’s participation in the Dakar Rally continues to promote low-emission transportation technology developments. Additional MoU’s Other agreements announced today seek to further Aramco’s research and development in the areas of carbon capture technology, artificial intelligence and local manufacturing. The MoU’s include:Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced the start of development of the vast Jafurah unconventional gas field, the largest non-associated gas field in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The Company has awarded subsurface and Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contracts worth $10 billion, with capital expenditure at Jafurah expected to reach $68 billion over the first 10 years of development. It is a significant milestone both for the commercialization of unconventional resources in Saudi Arabia and the expansion of Aramco’s integrated gas portfolio, which will provide additional feedstock to support growth of the Company’s high-value chemicals business, complement its focus on low-carbon hydrogen production and help reduce emissions in the domestic power sector by providing a cleaner-burning alternative to liquid fuel.  With an estimated 200 trillion standard cubic feet of gas in place, the Jafurah basin hosts the largest liquid-rich shale gas play in the Middle East. This shale play covers an area measuring 17,000 square kilometers and production of natural gas at Jafurah is expected to ramp up from 200 million standard cubic feet per day (scfd) in 2025 to reach a sustainable gas rate of two billion scfd of sales gas by 2030, with 418 million scfd of ethane and around 630,000 barrels per day of gas liquids and condensates, which are essential feedstock for the growing petrochemical industry. It will make Saudi Arabia one of the world’s largest natural gas producers. HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al Saud, Minister of Energy for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, said: “I would like to thank the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, and HRH Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, for their ongoing support of the Kingdom’s energy sector. The development of Jafurah will positively contribute to the Kingdom’s energy mix and it has been made possible thanks to close co-operation between more than 17 different agencies. The government is committed to the empowerment of national companies such as Aramco and no other energy company in the world is empowered to the same extent by the state, or by the Ministry of Energy which oversees the concession to develop the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources.” The project is a key component of the Company’s long-term strategy and Aramco expects total overall lifecycle investment at Jafurah to exceed $100 billion. Through its unconventional gas program at the Jafurah, North Arabia and South Ghawar fields, the Company expects to create more than 200,000 direct and indirect jobs.  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “This is a pivotal moment in the commercialization of Saudi Arabia’s vast unconventional resources program. It is a breakthrough that few outside the Kingdom thought was possible, and which has positive implications for energy security, economic development and climate protection. Gas has a critical role to play in the energy transition and it will help significantly reduce emissions in the domestic energy sector, while providing a feedstock for low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia. It will also allow Aramco to tap into high-value feedstocks for use in the expanding Downstream petrochemicals industry and our aim is to significantly increase our gas production capacity over the next decade to meet demand growth.” Aramco recently announced its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. Jafurah is expected to contribute to Saudi Arabia’s goal of producing half of its electricity from gas and half from renewables as the Kingdom pursues its own 2060 net-zero target.  At peak production, Aramco’s unconventional gas program is expected to replace around half a million barrels of crude oil per day that would otherwise have been used for domestic consumption. The Jafurah gas development alone is expected to replace more than 300,000 barrels of crude oil per day at peak production.  Nasir K. Al-Naimi, Aramco’s Upstream Senior Vice President, said: “The development of Jafurah is a game-changer for our Unconventional Resources program. It will be one of the most modern, cost-efficient shale development schemes in the industry and observe the highest environmental and safety standards. Jafurah will be a key enabler of our ambitions moving forward, and we continue to explore new fields, re-evaluate existing ones and evaluate potential joint investment opportunities in both natural gas and natural gas liquids as we pursue our goal of developing an integrated global gas portfolio to meet long-term energy and petrochemicals demand.”  Aramco has awarded 16 subsurface and EPC contracts valued at $10bn for the Jafurah Gas Plant and gas compression facilities, as well as infrastructure and related surface facilities. These contracts were awarded to domestic and international service companies and involve several projects to enable development of subsurface and surface components of the Jafurah program.  This will allow for the reliable delivery of gas and condensates through a dedicated surface network that includes a gas processing plant, a gas compression system and network of around 1,500 kilometers of main transfer pipelines, flow lines and gas gathering pipelines. The program also includes construction of the Jafurah Bulk Supply Point, transmission lines, power interconnection for Jafurah Gas Plant and new cogeneration plant facilities.  In line with Aramco’s Digital Transformation Program, development of Jafurah will incorporate advanced Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR) technologies, including Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) and video analytics, to enhance construction, operation and safety.  Aramco has awarded the majority of Jafurah subsurface contracts, in addition to engineering, material procurement and construction contracts, to contractors based in Saudi Arabia, in association with reputed international contractors and service providers. This is in line with the Company’s efforts to support development of the domestic energy sector and local supply chain partners. In addition, to drive domestic value creation and maximize long-term economic growth and diversification, the Jafurah development program will include an In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) component. Aramco launched the iktva program in 2015 to facilitate development of a diverse, sustainable, and a globally competitive energy sector.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBismillah al-Rahman al-Rahim. 

Your Royal Highness, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. 

It is a pleasure to welcome you to Saudi Aramco. 

Today, we celebrate the commercialization of the Kingdom’s vast unconventional resources. 

And an even bigger and stronger gas business for Saudi Aramco.

I am especially grateful to His Royal Highness, the Minister of Energy, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. 

He has always seen the potential of unconventional gas. 
And he was crucial in getting us over the line and making this historic day possible.

In fact, I have to say that without his tremendous support we would not have been successful in achieving this milestone. 

I also want to thank His Royal Highness, the Amir of the Eastern Province, Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz…

And His Excellency, Yasir Al-Rumayyan, Chairman of Saudi Aramco’s Board of Directors...

…for their wisdom, leadership, and support. 

And to our domestic and international partners who join us today – you are most welcome.

Your collaboration, hard work, and belief have also been key to getting us here. 

Ladies and Gentlemen, it is a rare honor to be present when big ambitions and real-world impact truly meet.

And, make no mistake, they do today. 

To begin with, this breakthrough in unconventional gas could not come at a better time for the energy transition. 

His Royal Highness, the Minister of Energy, recently identified three imperatives that would ensure a practical, stable, and inclusive one. 

Energy security.  Economic development.  And climate protection.

In many parts of the world, policy makers are failing to balance these three. 

Not here, I am proud to say. 

And gas itself ticks all three. 

It is a proven, reliable, and affordable energy source.  

It is the main option the world has to address the intermittency challenge renewables currently face.

And it emits around half of coal’s emissions in power generation.

So today is about celebrating the vital role of gas as a cornerstone of the transition, and an important, cleaner bridge to a sustainable energy future.

It is also a reflection of the bold aspirations of our beloved nation’s wise leadership, embodied in Vision 2030.  

It is a compelling example of the bold moves needed to enable the Kingdom to reach net-zero emissions by 2060. 

And how we at Saudi Aramco can achieve our net-zero ambition by 2050. 

But I believe today is about something even more inspiring and profound.

Many around the world have tried to develop unconventional resources. 

Only a few have succeeded like the Permian and Eagle Ford plays in Texas. 

And few people thought we could succeed in Saudi Arabia.
In fact, the early results were not very encouraging. 

We doubted if our unconventional fields would ever achieve the production rates, recovery rates, and cost levels we are used to seeing with conventional reservoirs. 

And that summed up the main problem. 

We could all see the potential.  

We knew that with increasing demand for energy and water in the Kingdom, it would be critical to reduce, and ultimately eliminate, liquid burning in utilities. 

And we knew that gas would be key to achieving higher efficiencies and lower emissions. 

But this was our moonshot.

And we were bringing conventional thinking to an unconventional challenge.

We quickly realized that a radical new mindset was needed.

So we created a totally separate organization, and challenged our team to think differently and act differently. 

To grow their own unique culture, bringing the best minds in the business together.

To use cutting-edge technology and techniques, drive down cost, and apply all this to our needs. 

In short, to do whatever it would take to make the Kingdom’s vast unconventional gas resources commercially viable. 

And to summon the spirit of Aramco’s first chief geologist, Max Steineke, who famously struck big when all seemed lost. 

It was a high risk play with high rewards.

Success was our only option.

The team made several wise strategic decisions early on. 

Perhaps the most important was defining the biggest challenge, which was the lack of know-how and data away from conventional fields.

So teams were sent out across the Kingdom on a rigorous data acquisition campaign.

With that data, they could build robust geological models to fully understand the complex sub-surface geology and develop a systematic de-risking strategy.  

Eventually, massive unconventional gas fields were discovered. 

Having identified all the sweet spots, the team adapted North American experience in drilling and completion designs to our own unique geological challenges. 


On top of this, they built a robust supply chain to provide materials and services at lower cost.

And created one of the most modern, cost-effective shale development schemes in the industry – with the highest safety, reliability, and environmental standards. 

Ten years later, the results are plain to see.

In particular, the gigantic, 17,000 square kilometer Jafurah basin – with an estimated 200 trillion standard cubic feet of gas in place – is where the pay-off is un-matched.  

By 2030, we expect Jafurah to provide approximately 2 billion standard cubic feet per day of sales gas. 

Furthermore, we managed to reduce drilling cost by 70% and stimulation cost by 90% since the 2014 cost benchmark, while increasing well productivity six-fold compared with the start of the program.

When you add Jafurah to the overall total, we anticipate almost half a million barrels per day of oil being replaced at peak production.  

And it will contribute to the avoidance of greenhouse gas emissions for the Kingdom’s power generation. 

Indeed, when you consider the Kingdom’s aim of generating 50% of its electricity from renewables and 50% from gas, Jafurah’s impact will be significant. 

Furthermore, reducing emissions in the power sector is just one aspect of how Jafurah fits with Aramco’s strategies.

Its ethane and NGL are highly valuable feedstocks for the Kingdom’s petrochemicals industry. 

So Jafurah will be a great enabler of our ambitions for chemicals.

On top of this, as the energy transition continues to unfold, the prospects for a global hydrogen economy continue to brighten. 

This is why Saudi Aramco has prioritized blue hydrogen and blue ammonia, and Jafurah gas is planned to be an important feedstock here too.

Last but not least, the Unconventional Resources program is also positioned to stimulate the local economy.  

We are aiming for over 70% localization in the upstream and petrochemical value chain by 2025.

And we hope that will create more than 200,000 direct and indirect jobs. 

In other words, Jafurah is clearly a world-scale unconventional gas play. 

And to us in the Kingdom, it is the jewel in our unconventional gas revolution.  

Your Royal Highness, Your Excellency, ladies and gentlemen, this is a great day for the Kingdom and Saudi Aramco.

The promise of our unconventional resources is starting to be realized. 

And as this incredible team has shown the world, making the impossible possible is the key to everyone’s future on this planet. 

They have shown that hard work, new thinking, solving problems together, and never giving up does pay off.

They have made the company, the Kingdom, and the industry very proud. 

And they have inspired everyone in the company to aim higher. 

If we can do this in less than a decade, just imagine what else we can do!

Thank you.  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its third quarter financial results, recording a 158% year-on-year (YoY) increase in net income to $30.4 billion and declaring a dividend of $18.8 billion to be paid in the fourth quarter. The increase in net income was primarily the result of higher crude oil prices and volumes sold and stronger refining and chemicals margins in Q3, which were underpinned by rebounding global energy demand and increased economic activity in key markets.  Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: 
“Our exceptional third quarter performance was a result of increased economic activity in key markets and a rebound in energy demand, as well as our unique low-cost position, our financial discipline and our proven ability to reliably deliver essential energy and chemical products to our customers.  “Some headwinds still exist for the global economy, partly due to supply chain bottlenecks, but we are optimistic that energy demand will remain healthy for the foreseeable future.  “Looking ahead, we are maintaining our strategy to invest for the long term, and we will build on our track record of low-cost and low-carbon intensity performance to advance our recently announced ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across our wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.” 

Financial Highlights Aramco’s net income was $30.4 billion in the third quarter, compared to $11.8 billion in Q3 2020. This 158% YoY increase in net income principally reflects the impact of higher crude oil prices and volumes sold and stronger refining and chemicals margins.  Free cash flow* was $28.7 billion in the third quarter, compared to $12.4 billion for the same period in 2020, and the company again delivered for its shareholders by declaring a dividend of $18.8 billion for Q3. ROACE*, calculated on a 12-month rolling basis, was 20.6% for the period ending September 30, 2021, compared to 14.8% for the same period in 2020, principally reflecting an increase in net income. The Company’s gearing ratio* was 17.2% on September 30, 2021, when compared with 23% on December 31, 2020. The decrease was mainly due to higher cash and cash equivalents, driven by higher operating cash flows resulting from stronger crude oil prices, improved refining and chemicals margins, the consolidation of SABIC’s results and cash proceeds in relation to Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipelines transaction that completed in the second quarter of 2021.  Aramco continues to invest for the future with capital expenditure of $7.6 billion in the third quarter, representing a 19% increase, compared with the same period in 2020. This increase was primarily due to ongoing crude oil increment and other development projects. Aramco maintains a flexible approach to capital allocation and continues to expect 2021 capital expenditure to be approximately $35 billion. Operational Highlights  Aramco continued its strong track record of reliable supply, achieving 99.7% reliability in the delivery of crude oil and other products in the third quarter of 2021.
The Company also demonstrated its consistent Upstream performance, with total hydrocarbon production of 12.9 million barrels per day of oil equivalent in the third quarter of 2021, including average crude oil production of 9.5 million barrels per day (bpd). Upstream continues to execute its growth plans to promote long-term productivity of Saudi Arabia’s reservoirs and is proceeding with implementing the Government’s directive to increase its crude oil maximum sustainable capacity from 12 million bpd to 13 million bpd. During the third quarter, the Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion project reached advanced stages of construction. The project is part of the Haradh Gas increment program and is expected to be onstream in 2022. On August 15, the financial close for the 1.5 GW Sudair Solar PV plant, in which Aramco holds a 30% stake through its wholly-owned subsidiary Saudi Aramco Power Company (SAPCO), was announced. The project, in partnership with ACWA Power and Water & Electricity Holding Co. (Badeel), a company owned by the Public Investment Fund (PIF), will be one of the largest solar plants in the region.  Aramco’s investment marks its first participation in PIF’s renewable energy program, reflecting the company’s efforts to advance sustainable energy solutions. The first phase of the project is expected to begin producing electricity during the second half of 2022.  On September 7, Aramco announced a major expansion of its industrial investment program, Aramco Namaat, with the signing of 22 new Memoranda of Understanding and one joint venture agreement. The program is focused on capacity building in four key sectors: sustainability, technology, industrial and energy services, and advanced materials.  The Namaat program aims to ensure greater reliability of energy supply and effectively localize the industrial supply chain, while targeting new opportunities to achieve carbon footprint reduction and implement circular carbon economy concepts. Namaat complements the Company’s flagship In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) localization program, as well as the government’s Shareek program. On September 20, the Oil & Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), of which Aramco is a member, announced its aim to reach net-zero emissions from operations under OGCI members’ control, and also leverage their influence to achieve the same in non-operated assets, within the timeframe set by the Paris Agreement. Following the OGCI announcement Aramco on October 23 stated its own ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. 
On September 24, Aramco’s Abqaiq oil processing facility, the largest oil processing plant in the world, became the Company’s third facility to be added to the World Economic Forum’s Global Lighthouse Network, which recognizes industrial sites that have successfully adopted and scaled up cutting-edge technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. On September 27, Jazan Integrated Gasification and Power Company (JIGPC), a joint venture consisting of Saudi Aramco Power Company (SAPCO), Air Products, ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra signed agreements for the $12 billion acquisition and financing of the Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined-Cycle (IGCC) power plant, an Air Separation Unit and certain ancillary assets from Aramco located in Jazan Economic City. The joint venture aims to enhance the overall value of the Jazan refinery and the IGCC power plant, aiding in transforming the Jazan Province and positioning it for additional foreign investment and private sector involvement. 

*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced plans to expand its focus on emerging sectors to drive private sector innovation and investment. During the Future Investment Initiative, it outlined potential new projects in green hydrogen, sustainable technology solutions, advanced nonmetallic building materials and digitalization.  The Company is pursuing investment opportunities in projects that could potentially reduce Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions, following the recent announcement of its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050.   

Details of new initiatives were outlined as global leaders and investors gathered at the Future Investment Forum to discusses the future of venture capital and key issues facing the world. 

Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “Our plans illustrate our focus on developing innovative projects and investments, which support our long-term business strategy and aim to have a positive impact. Collaboration will be crucial in promoting economic development and creating new opportunities, as we expand our portfolio, diversify our business, advance low-carbon energy technologies and develop sustainable solutions.” 

To move its program forward, Aramco has signed five Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with the following companies: The MoUs are expected to complement Aramco’s continued investments in oil and gas, with further announcements on its Jafurah gas program expected in the near future.    Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, added: “The Ministry of Energy, led by HRH Abdulaziz bin Salman, Minister of Energy of Saudi Arabia, has enabled a business-friendly investment environment for strategic initiatives and programs, including advancing our work on the Jafurah gas field, which will play an important role in the expansion of our gas operations, support diversification of our portfolio and benefit the Kingdom’s business sectors.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and TotalEnergies have launched the first two service stations of their joint retail network in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia’s capital, and Saihat, in the country’s Eastern Province. It follows the signing of a 50:50 Joint Venture (JV) Agreement between Aramco and TotalEnergies in 2019, with plans to  significantly upgrade a network of 270 service stations and expand the range of quality retail services available across the Kingdom.  This network will comprise Aramco or TotalEnergies branded stations, providing motorists with premium fuels and retail services. 

Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “The opening of the first service stations marks an important milestone as we continue to expand our presence in the Kingdom’s downstream value chain. With our longstanding partner TotalEnergies, we are creating a premium network that will enhance the experience of Saudi Arabia’s motorists and travelers. As the Kingdom scales up tourism projects, we can expect domestic travel to increase, along with demand for hospitality and travel services. With our entry into retail, we aim to deliver the best experience possible for customers, while creating opportunities for Saudis to pursue careers in retail and marketing.”  

Patrick Pouyanné, Chairman and CEO of TotalEnergies, present at the inauguration ceremony in Riyadh, declared: “We aim to provide our new Saudi customers with clean, reliable and accessible energy,’’ “The opening of these two first stations is another step forward in reaffirming our long-standing partnership with Aramco, following our joint investments in SATORP since 2008. I am delighted that this also marks a new milestone in our four decades-long presence in Saudi Arabia, contributing to the local economy of Saudi Arabia.” 

Operating under both brands, customers can expect the same high level of service, including quality fuels, one-stop convenience stores, efficient automotive services such as oil change and car wash, loyalty programs and a fully digitalized customer journey. The TotalEnergies stations will house Bonjour Café, while the Aramco stations will feature Fai Café, where customers can enjoy freshly baked pastries, premium coffee and relax while waiting for their vehicles. The stations are also equipped with solar panels, in line with the Saudi Green Initiative’s goals.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its ambition to achieve net-zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions across its wholly-owned operated assets by 2050. This ambition is an important part of the Company’s focus on long-term shareholder value creation by advancing its goals through a Company-wide approach in sustainability. The Company plans to disclose further details in its forthcoming Sustainability Report to be issued in Q2 2022. The Company announcement complements the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s aim to reach net-zero emissions by 2060. Aramco Chairman, H.E. Yasir Al-Rumayyan, said: “Aramco recognizes both the scale and urgency of the climate challenge as well as its responsibility to help address it, as the world’s largest energy company. Reducing emissions, while meeting the world’s continuing energy needs, is one of the biggest challenges of this century. Aramco has a uniquely strong platform from which to lead the global industry to meet this challenge and we are delighted to announce today our ambition to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions across our operations by 2050.”  Amin H. Nasser, Aramco President and CEO, said: “As the largest provider of energy to the world, Aramco’s ambition to reach net-zero greenhouse gas emissions across our operations in less than three decades is a historic step forward that will help tackle the most pressing challenge facing humanity. Our past success has not been measured by quarters or business cycles, but across generations. The same will apply to the positive results from our net-zero ambition, as the actions we take in the coming years will help safeguard our planet for future generations.  “The road ahead will be complex, as the world’s transition to a more sustainable energy future will require collective action and major technological breakthroughs. But we remain focused on delivering reliable and affordable energy, investing for the long term as our efforts to further reduce emissions gain momentum.” Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comLadies and gentlemen,

It is a great honor to address so many distinguished friends of the Kingdom. Let me first thank the Middle East Institute, for bringing us together tonight and for honoring me with this award. 

Let me also congratulate the MEI on reaching its milestone 75th anniversary. 

My subject tonight is the legacy of the Saudi-U.S. partnership. 

Though for me, it’s more than just a partnership. It’s a friendship, founded on trust and mutual respect. It is a partnership based on common interests and shared goals.  A common interest in stable global energy markets.  A shared sense of responsibility for a peaceful and prosperous world beyond our borders. 

If I had to point to one moment that marked the beginning of our partnership, I would say: May 29, 1933. This was the day when the Kingdom’s own Founding Father - King Abdulaziz Al Saud - directed our government to sign a concession with Standard Oil of California. A forerunner of today’s Chevron. 

With the deal done, a small exploration company was set up to hunt for oil in Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province. And for the first few years, they didn’t find much. 

Then in 1938, just as money and patience were running out, the team struck black gold on a rocky outcrop near the eastern coast. Dammam Number 7: the Kingdom’s first commercially viable well – also known as the Prosperity Well.

That discovery was thanks, in large part, to the work of two men. Max Steineke, the company’s brilliant Chief Geologist and Khamis bin Rimthan, the company’s talented Chief Guide, a man who could read the desert not only like a book, but like a book he’d learnt by heart. 

And crucially for the Kingdom’s future, both men taught their trade to the other. This partnership between these two men is one of the earliest and best examples of the power of Saudi-U.S. teamwork.

Because that small, speculative oil venture would, of course, one day become Aramco. I mention that history for two reasons. 

First, because it shows in outline the essential features of the Saudi-U.S. relationship: 

The central role of energy in powering that partnership, the trade in knowledge that has always gone hand in hand with the trade in barrels of crude. It also shows that right from the start, our partnership was based on mutual benefit. Both sides benefitted enormously when they sat down to sign that concession agreement. And that’s just as true today. 

For example, on average, Aramco spends $10 billion annually on U.S.-based suppliers and contractors and we directly employ almost 7,000 people in the U.S.  

Motiva, our refining subsidiary in Texas, is the largest single site crude refinery in North America. Last year, it had a $43.6 billion impact on the U.S. economy, supporting over 74,000 American jobs. 

At the same time, Aramco is enriched by U.S. innovation. 

We have an R&D Center in Houston, focused on the latest upstream technologies. Another in Detroit working on the next generation of ultra-efficient car engines. And one in Boston researching advanced materials and nanotechnology.

Through our venture capital arm, we’ve invested in 35 U.S. portfolio companies. This includes a wonderful new unicorn based in Massachusetts called Desktop Metal, that makes the world’s fastest 3D metal printers. 

The Kingdom’s Public Investment Fund, one of the world’s largest sovereign wealth funds, is also a significant investor in the U.S. Our portfolio is focused on what we call the Human Future, industries that spur innovation and boost quality of life.

This includes a commitment to invest $20 billion alongside Blackstone and other investors in infrastructure projects in the U.S. Also investments in blue-chip U.S. companies like Uber, mixed reality pioneers Magic Leap and the award-winning U.S. EV-maker Lucid Motors.

But my other reason for starting with this history is that it sets the scene for what’s happening in the Kingdom today. 

The model of development which began in 1933 has served us well. By channeling Aramco’s profits back into the Saudi economy, we’ve improved the lives of our citizens significantly.

But we’re entering a new era. 

The time has come to grow and diversify our private sector. Produce more goods and services in our own back yard. Attract more people into the Kingdom – investors, entrepreneurs, creators, pilgrims and tourists. 

And of course, we need to prepare for a low-emissions future.

Above all, we need to unleash the talents of our citizens, men and women. Especially the two thirds of Saudis under the age of 35.  

This is what our transformation plan, Vision 2030, is designed to achieve. And that plan is working. 

Since Vision 2030 was launched by His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, non-oil government revenue has more than tripled to 47 percent of total revenue. 

The value of the assets managed by PIF has grown to over $450 billion from $150 billion in 2015. The rate of female participation in our workforce has risen from a fifth of Saudi women, to over a third. 

That, ladies and gentlemen, is real progress, and there’s real excitement in the Kingdom today. But our Vision is not just a Saudi opportunity. I believe it can be an American opportunity too. The energy transition is the clearest example of this. So let me briefly lay out the Kingdom’s plan. 

At Aramco, we believe our country has a crucial role to play in ensuring a smooth and orderly energy transition. Demand for energy is rising. We cannot deliver – or indeed pay – for that transition if the world stops moving and growing.  

Yet it’s clear we need lower emissions and ever cleaner forms of energy. This is why, earlier this year, His Royal Highness the Crown Prince announced the Saudi Green Initiative. 

It commits Saudi Arabia to plant 10 billion trees in coming decades. It also commits us to generate half the nation’s electricity from renewable energy by 2030, an ambitious goal, but we’ve made a start. 

The Kingdom’s Sudair Power Project – a 1.5GW solar plant – is set to be among the world’s largest. We’re also planning one of the world’s biggest green hydrogen plants with our U.S. partner Air Products, and Saudi Arabia’s ACWA Power and NEOM. 

The plant will use 4GW of sunlight and wind to generate 1.2 million tons a year of zero-carbon ammonia. 

NEOM’s The Line will extend over 170 kilometers, a linear urban development that we’re designing to be home to 1 million residents, and guess what? It will preserve 95 percent of nature, within NEOM, with zero cars, zero streets, and zero carbon emissions. But renewables are only one part of the picture. 

To deliver against the Paris Accords, the world must tackle greenhouse gases in every part of the energy system, not just the power sector, which produces 40 percent of global emissions, but farming, buildings, transport and industry. 

These all have a part to play. And that includes the oil and gas industry. And yes, there’s more to do. But we’re proud of our environmental record. 

We have the lowest upstream carbon intensity of any major producer. At 10.4kg of CO2 per barrel of oil equivalent, it’s less than half the average carbon emissions intensity of the OGCI, a group of leading oil and gas producers who explicitly support the aims of the Paris Accords. 

Our performance significantly contributes to lowering this group’s overall emissions footprint. Nor is this a recent development. 

We’ve been on this road for 40 years. Decades before anyone had heard of ESG, long before it made economic sense, we were capturing our flare gas instead of burning it off. 
Why? Because we wanted the gas as a resource for the Kingdom’s future power needs, for our future industries. 

Because we think in decades, not quarters. 

It’s why, today, we’re working with the world’s leading auto-makers to develop cleaner fuels and more efficient engines. Why we’re planting millions of mangrove trees to create natural carbon sinks and promote biodiversity.  

Why we’re building a large petrochemicals business, to find more non-combustible market routes for Saudi oil. And why we’re one of the earliest adopters of carbon capture and storage.  

Our CO2-enhanced oil recovery demonstration plant at Al-Uthmaniyah captures and injects 800,000 tons-per-year of CO2 for enhanced oil recovery. This is equivalent to taking more than 170,000 passenger cars off the road per year.   

And I can tell you now that Saudi Arabia has the geology and the drive to go much further on carbon capture, utilization and storage. We recently used this technology to produce blue hydrogen from natural gas, which we converted to 40 tons of blue ammonia, shipping it to Japan for use in low-emissions power generation.  

We believe blue hydrogen has huge potential, both as a low-emissions fuel, and crucially, as an enabler of a low-emissions energy system. In particular, it can help with forms of transport that are too big to be easily powered by batteries.

It can be a baseload backup for renewables. And a fuel for industries like steel and chemicals that require vast inputs of heat and power. This is why we want to be a leader in the new hydrogen economy, just as we are a leader in oil and gas. 

And to those who say this new technology is uneconomic or impractical, I say come and see our Master Gas System. 

Built at a time when it was neither economic nor practical – today, it is an integral part of the Kingdom’s energy infrastructure. Of course, we can’t do any of this on our own, and we intend to play a leadership role in our region, recognizing that we share the same challenges as our neighbors. 

It’s why, later this week, our government is convening a landmark summit of the Middle East Green Initiative. A regional counterpart to our own summit, the Saudi Green Initiative. 

So this is our plan, ladies and gentlemen. It requires investment. A long-term view of the future. And a lot of hard work and I believe the Saudi-U.S. relationship will be central to its success. 

So let me conclude by setting out what I see as the key areas of future cooperation. 

First, inward investment. 

Vision 2030 is a huge opportunity for U.S. firms to expand their presence in Saudi Arabia. We’re targeting investments in sectors that include the green economy, digital technology, tourism and advanced materials among others. And we have a range of incentives on offer to ensure that the Kingdom can compete for your business.

On the Red Sea coast, as I’ve mentioned, we’re building NEOM, a radically new model of urban living. In our Eastern Province we’ve signed our first tenants for the King Salman Energy Park – SPARK for short. SPARK will be a regional hub for the global energy services industry, a gateway to the Middle East. 

Capital will flow in the other direction too. PIF’s plans to transform the Saudi economy call for strategic, future-focused investment far beyond our borders in sectors spanning healthcare, transport, real estate, technology and infrastructure.  

Second, I believe we can deepen our technology partnership. 

There is no credible pathway to net zero that does not include carbon capture, utilization and storage. That is the most up to date assessment of both the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the International Energy Agency. 

We need to make this technology affordable enough and practical enough to start to make a difference on a world scale. Longer term, the world may need solutions like direct air capture of CO2. 

U.S. and Saudi innovation, combined with dedicated resources, will be vital to that endeavor. Alongside the energy transition we need a materials transition. 

Nonmetallic alternatives to steel. Carbon-cured concrete that can store CO2. Single-stage crude to chemicals refining. Aramco is backing these technologies.

Together we can scale them up.   

Last, we need to work together to manage a just and sustainable transition. The idea that oil and gas can be eliminated overnight from the global energy system is a fantasy. This would paralyze trade and travel, condemning billions of people to poverty and insecurity. 

Our enemy is not carbon, which is one of the building blocks of life on earth. Our enemy is unchecked carbon emissions. To win this fight, we must value all efforts, all options, and all technologies that reduce the flow of greenhouse gases into our atmosphere. 

So let us make and win that argument together. 

Ladies and gentlemen, today we are approaching the dawn of a new era in the Saudi-U.S. relationship. We’re moving from a relationship based on oil, to a partnership based on the supply of clean energy in all its forms.

A growing trade in materials. A growing exchange of ideas. A partnership based not on resource extraction, but on long-term value creation. 

And although we cannot predict the future, there’s one thing I know for sure, whatever happens in the years ahead, the world’s most important energy partnership will be red, white, blue – and green.   

Thank you. Thank you, Lyn. And good afternoon Your Excellencies, and distinguished ladies and gentlemen. 

While I regret I can’t join those of you in New Delhi this year, I’m always delighted to share my thoughts on the historic and ever-growing importance of the Indo-Saudi relationship.  
 
We know that it’s a relationship deeply rooted in history. That Indian and Arab merchants built a thriving trade on the Red Sea many centuries ago. 

But I believe the modern-day transformation of India – and Saudi Arabia’s role as a key trade partner – is a story we will also look-to for generations to come. 

So, I wish to congratulate you all for this remarkable success, even as there is more to be achieved.Aramco is proud to be a key supplier of the energy that is fueling Indian prosperity. 

We opened our office in New Delhi several years ago, knowing that India will be an increasingly important market for us, and that a physical presence allows us to be a much more effective partner.  
 
Longer-term, we know that energy will remain a driver of economic growth.
 
Even as new energy sources gradually play a greater role, oil, gas and chemicals will remain essential to economic development for a long time. In our view, both existing and new energy sources will run in parallel for the foreseeable future.Also running in parallel are some very complex challenges, such as climate change and sustainability, while the reliability and affordability of energy, as well as economic development, remain crucial. Particularly for the billions in developing countries who strive to build better lives. 

So, we want to work with India to meet these challenges.
 
Looking at the climate challenge, the upstream carbon intensity of Aramco’s oil supply remains among the lowest in the world.  

In practical terms, for our customers, this equates to a smaller impact on the climate. And we continue to develop and deploy a range of cutting-edge technologies to further reduce the carbon footprint of our oil and gas.

Our vision is to invest across the value chain in India, and partner with Indian companies in this endeavor. 

As you know, Aramco is significantly strengthening its downstream business, to better complement our long-standing preeminence in upstream. And chemicals, especially, offer us a strategic opportunity. 

Our goal is to build a chemicals business that is a global leader, on-par with our leading position in oil. Our acquisition of a 70-percent stake in SABIC has been key, allowing us to offer one-stop integrated solutions from crude oil supplies, refined products and chemicals, to lubricants and advanced non-metallic materials. 
 
And we are accelerating our investments in large integrated refining/petrochemicals manufacturing complexes, especially in large markets like India. 

We are also strengthening our business relations with Indian companies in general.

This includes buying goods and services in upstream oil and gas engineering, procurement, and construction. One Indian infrastructure company has been awarded 10 projects worth about 3.5 Billion Dollars over the years. And some of India’s top IT companies, such as WIPRO and TATA Consultancy, are now providing services to Aramco. 

So, there is no shortage of new opportunities as India and Saudi Aramco build upon what is already a strong foundation. It is a relationship rooted in history, but always forward-facing, positioning us for growth and prosperity.
 
And I can tell you that Aramco remains very proud to be a partner in India’s progress.
 
So, I wish you a productive and engaging session.

And I thank you very much.The World Economic Forum has recognized a third Aramco facility, Abqaiq, for its pioneering adoption and integration of cutting-edge technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR). The Abqaiq oil processing facility, the largest oil processing plant in the world, joins Aramco’s Uthmaniyah Gas Plant and Khurais oil complex in the Forum’s prestigious Global Lighthouse Network. Global Lighthouse status is awarded to projects that demonstrate leadership in 4IR technologies to transform factories, value chains and business models. Abqaiq is one of 21 new facilities added to the network, taking the total number to 90 worldwide, and Aramco is the only international energy company to be recognized. Aramco’s Digital Transformation Vice President, Nabil Al-Nuaim, said: “We are delighted to be recognized once again for our adoption and deployment of cutting-edge technologies. That three of our key facilities have been added to the Global Lighthouse Network in less than three years is a testament to the importance we place on our Digital Transformation Program – and the rapid pace at which it is advancing. Through pioneering the large-scale use of 4IR solutions, such as Artificial Intelligence, Industrial Internet of Things (IioT), automation and robotics, we are setting new benchmarks for global industry. In the process, we are achieving significant improvements in cost, efficiency, product quality, energy consumption and environmental performance.” Abqaiq is a cornerstone of Aramco’s operations and produces Arab Light Crude Oil, Arab Extra Light Crude Oil, Gas Condensate and Natural Gas Liquids (NGL). The facility provides around 5% of global oil supplies.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe JV formed in 2018 to enhance the overall value of Jazan refinery and integrated gasification combined cycle power plant, aiding in transforming the Jazan Province by positioning Jazan Economic City (JEC) for additional Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) and private sector involvement. The consortium is expected to increase job opportunities and transfer the most advanced technologies in this field to the Kingdom, and enable Saudi talent to employ this technology for the first time. Aramco, Air Products (NYSE: APD), ACWA Power and Air Products Qudra today announced the signing and finalization of definitive agreements for the asset acquisition and project financing of the $12 billion air separation unit (ASU)/gasification/power joint venture (JV) in Jazan Economic City. Aramco via its subsidiary Saudi Aramco Power Company (SAPCO) has a 20 percent share in the JV; Air Products 46 percent; ACWA Power 25 percent; and Air Products Qudra 9 percent. Moreover, Air Products’ total ownership position is 50.6 percent by owning an additional 4.6 percent through Air Products Qudra. The JV is purchasing the ASUs, gasification, syngas cleanup, utilities and power assets from Aramco. The JV owns and operates the facility under a 25-year contract for a fixed monthly fee. Aramco will supply feedstock to the JV, and the JV will produce power, steam, hydrogen and other utilities for Aramco. The JV serves Aramco’s Jazan Refinery, a megaproject to process 400,000 barrels per day of the crude oil to produce the main products such as ultra-light sulphur diesel, gasoline, and other products. With the completion of these definitive agreements, all parties under the joint venture expect asset transfer and funding to occur during the month of October 2021. Air Products intends to conduct a public investor call at that time. Mohammed Al Qahtani, Senior Vice President of Downstream, Aramco said: “We are very pleased to reach this significant milestone. Aramco originally built the world’s largest integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) complex to employ gasification technology for the first time in the Kingdom and to keep pace with the development of the Kingdom’s Southern Province industrially and economically. This JV is meant to be central to the self-sufficiency of our megaprojects at Jazan. We believe the JV will enhance the overall value of the refinery and integrated gasification combined cycle power plant, and aid in transforming the province by positioning Jazan Economic City for additional foreign investment and private sector involvement. In fact, we are pleased to have the Saudi Industrial Development Fund (SIDF) and 23 local and international lenders engaged in this transaction securing a total of $7.2Bn.  We are optimistic that future investment offers the potential to be a game-changer in the years ahead.” Air Products Chairman, President and CEO, Seifi Ghasemi, said: “We are very proud to announce the finalization of the definitive agreements for this complex transaction and now move forward. This is a perfect fit with our growth strategy. It is a value-creating investment for Air Products and leverages our core syngas purification and industrial gas production capabilities. Most importantly, it is a privilege to further strengthen our relationship with Aramco, the world’s largest company, and to partner with ACWA Power and Qudra Energy in this megaproject, which supports the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 and building partnerships for mutual growth.” Mohammad Abunayyan, Chairman of ACWA Power, said: “The successful financial agreement concluded today is the largest agreement of its kind in ACWA Power’s history and highlights our continued firm commitment to the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 and its strategic goals for the energy sector. A monumental shift is underway in Saudi Arabia’s energy sector, and we are proud of our partnership and close collaboration with Aramco and Air Products towards diversifying the energy mix and increasing the efficiency of the sector. Drawing on the pioneering expertise and capabilities of all joint venture partners, Jazan IGCC is set to be the largest integrated project for gasification and combined cycle energy production in the world. Bringing the most advanced technologies to the Kingdom, the Jazan project will push the boundaries. We are also exceptionally proud to add to ACWA Power’s track record in training and upskilling Saudi talent to meet the requirements of the sector.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco has today signed Memorandums of Understanding (MoU) with P1 Racing Fuels and WRC Promoter GmbH, the commercial rights owner of the FIA World Rally Championship (WRC), to support the global motorsport series in its purpose-driven transition towards sustainable motorsport and mobility.  In line with Aramco’s focus on sustainability and low-carbon fuels, the Company is thrilled to support WRC to achieve their sustainability goals, and is proud to be a chosen technical partner for the championship, which reconfirmed its commitment to 100% sustainable fuels by 2022. Under the MoUs, Aramco and P1 Racing Fuels will collaborate on the formulation of advanced-generation biofuels and sustainable synthetic fuels derived from captured CO2 and low-carbon hydrogen, which will be used in the WRC. The partnership will also explore the use of low-carbon fuels to power auxiliary on-site generators.  Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, CTO of Aramco, said: “This is an important milestone for the development of low-carbon fuels that support the drive for more sustainable mobility. Sustainable synthetic fuels can help contribute to a low-carbon energy future, and this partnership demonstrates Aramco’s circular carbon approach by testing low-carbon synthetic fuel in one of the most demanding conditions.” Martin Popilka, CEO of P1 Racing Fuels added: “P1 Racing Fuels has a long history of powering progress on the race track, but it doesn’t stop there. Developing sustainable fuels for motorsports brings us an important step closer to delivering similar products for everyday motorists - where fully renewable fuels could one day be available at the pump, and work with normal combustion engines with a fraction of the environmental impact.”  Jona Siebel, CEO of WRC Promoter GmbH, said: “The technology behind sustainable fuels is changing rapidly. Therefore, we are pleased to have access to Aramco’s outstanding technical development team in finding the best available solution. The chosen blend of advanced biofuel and innovative e-fuel components makes WRC a real leader in sustainable motorsports with everyday cars. The WRC is a tremendous platform to develop and validate this innovative fuel in mass-produced vehicles, on real roads and under all circumstances on almost every continent.  What we will learn by using this fuel on the WRC stages can ultimately benefit road users all over the world.” Yves Matton, FIA Rally Director, said: “The FIA has worked tirelessly to turn the hybrid-based Rally1 project from concept to reality via a close cooperation with the competing manufacturers, whose input has been invaluable, and WRC Promoter. At the same time, the FIA technical department has defined the specification of the 100% sustainable fuel that will be mandatory from next year to further underline the FIA’s commitment to a more sustainable future with a 360-degree approach. Alongside the collaboration with P1 Racing Fuels, we look forward to welcoming the additional technical expertise that Aramco will bring to the WRC.” Aramco will leverage in-house technology expertise to explore improving engine efficiencies at the WRC. Working closely with motorsport experts from P1 Racing Fuels, this collaboration will tap into Aramco’s network of scientists and engineers located in the Company’s global research centers in Dhahran, Paris, Shanghai, and Detroit. Aramco has significant R&D efforts focused on the development of low-carbon synthetic fuels with plans to pilot their production with partners in Europe and Saudi Arabia over the coming years.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThank you, Ruba.   And good morning, everyone.  It is so rewarding to, once again, gather as a Downstream team! I want to welcome everyone joining us … whether you are here with us in person … watching from your workstation … or even from Aramco Asia, and S-Oil …  Though we cannot all gather in person, we are together in spirit – and that is very much appreciated. In fact, I can think of no greater reason to gather as a team than to celebrate the tremendous progress we are making in our digital transformation. As I have expressed before, there are many reasons I am inspired by the opportunity to serve as Senior Vice President of the Downstream Organization. …  But I can tell you that first among them is the chance to lead an organization that is pushing the boundaries of what is possible.  Redefining the opportunities in Downstream operations, and playing a crucial role in the future, not only of Saudi Aramco, but the future of the Kingdom.  In so many ways, this Downstream Organization is at the very epicenter of a powerful transformation.  And that is an exciting place to be. I want to thank everyone who has worked so hard to bring this first Downstream Technical Excellence Award program together. And our objective with these awards is twofold:  First, we want to shine a powerful spotlight on excellence taking place across the organization. Aramco is well on its way to becoming the world’s leading digitalized company.  And this is especially evident in Downstream.  Continuous progress in areas such as Artificial Intelligence, Robotics, Data Science, the Internet of Things, and many others, is improving financial performance … generating new revenue streams … enhancing safety and security … and strengthening our climate position.  At the same time, our work in crude-to-chemicals conversion, catalysis, and several related technologies, is opening new avenues of opportunity in the Downstream space. These awards give us a chance to recognize this real-time transformation.  More than this, however – and far beyond the teams we celebrate today – I want these awards to be a catalyst for bold new thinking.  Many of you know my passion for education. I have often said that one of things I enjoy most about working with universities like KAUST, or KFUPM, or with technology ecosystems like DTV, is seeing how innovation grows in the spaces between traditional disciplines. When fields overlap, and connections are made. This is where the Fourth Industrial Revolution is taking place. But I can also tell you that I don’t need to look to universities to find such inspiration. … I see this within our Company, time and again.  In Downstream, it might be where connective tissue is discovered between Advanced Analytics and maintenance. … Or between Robotics and back office operations. … There are numerous examples. The challenge for us is to see and recognize these unexplored areas between disciplines. Because the tools that IR 4.0 has given us are extremely powerful. … But they don’t come with an instruction manual.  Their power is only realized when they are deployed as real-world applications.  Our awards today recognize teams who have seen such opportunities and deployed such applications.  And by highlighting their achievements, we invite everyone, across the entire organization, to ask how we can accelerate technology deployment. … Improve business competitiveness. … And continue to open new avenues of opportunity.  I am inspired by the tremendous amount of progress taking place across Downstream. …  And I am proud to stand with all of you at the epicenter of transformation.  And with that, I will turn it back over to Ruba, as we turn the spotlight on some amazing teams.   Thank you. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced a major expansion of its industrial investment program, Aramco Namaat, with the signing of 22 new Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) and 1 joint venture (JV) agreement focused on capacity building in four key sectors: sustainability, technology, industrial and energy services, and advanced materials.  Namaat means (collective) growth in Arabic and the program aims to tap into the vast opportunities available in Saudi Arabia to create new value, and drive economic expansion and diversification. Aramco Chairman, H.E. Yasir Al-Rumayyan, said: “Aramco continues to be at the forefront of enabling and enhancing the Kingdom’s industrial, technology and sustainability infrastructure through large-scale investments and key partnerships, such as IKTVA and, by extension, Namaat. Such initiatives help further drive economic growth and diversification, ensure greater reliability of energy supply, effectively localize the industrial supply chain, and create better jobs and skillsets.” Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “Namaat offers our partners significant opportunities to participate in Aramco’s long-term growth strategy and play a vital role in the Kingdom’s expanding energy and chemicals supply chain. The benefits for everyone involved are multiple as well as mutual and I am proud that Aramco continues to be a catalyst at the heart of the Kingdom’s transformation, harnessing its expertise and resources to champion new markets and growth sectors. We believe these exciting target sectors offer significant opportunities for all the current and prospective parties involved.” The 22 new MoUs signed under the Namaat program include: As a result of Aramco’s continuous support of the industrial ecosystem, a JV agreement between SeAH and Dussur to localize stainless steel seamless tube and pipe manufacturing has materialized. Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, Ahmed Al-Sa’adi, said: “Through Namaat, we are attracting world-class partners who share our goal of continuous industrial development. These partnerships illustrate Saudi Arabia’s significant appeal to international companies and pave the way for new innovations in materials, processes and solutions. Leveraging a range of finance, funding, tax and regulatory incentives available through the government’s Shareek program, we aim to drive competitive advantage and achieve benefits for the environment, our business, our partners and for the wider energy and chemicals sector.” The Namaat program is focused on investments in four key areas that align closely with Aramco’s objectives: The program complements Aramco’s flagship In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) program, which was launched in 2015 to enhance supply chain efficiency through localization, skills development, knowledge transfer and job creation. It also aligns with other major initiatives intended to drive a world-class energy and industrial ecosystem in Saudi Arabia, such as King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services, King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), and the forthcoming LAB7 innovation hub. The 22 new MoUs announced today build on others first unveiled in November 2020, which included collaborations with Shell and AMG Recycling B.V., and Suzhou XDM 3D Printing Company Ltd, focusing on new business development in metal reclamation and commercial opportunities in industrial 3D printing, respectively. Companies can register their interest in the Namaat program by emailing NAMAAT@aramco.com.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen, zǎo shàng hǎo(زاو شَن خاو)  and good morning. I would like to thank our gracious organizers for this opportunity to share my thoughts with you at this critical time … as the world struggles to emerge from the havoc unleashed by Covid-19. I also want to congratulate China for being among the leading countries to effectively tackle the pandemic and recover rapidly. President Xi’s historic Belt and Road Initiative is a platform for building a global community and a shared future … offering Arab nations, in particular, a solution for common prosperity and development. Aramco is delighted to be a partner in progress through our long-standing trade and investment links with China. … And privileged to help advance our many shared strategic priorities.The first, of course, is supporting a vibrant economy. China’s economic transformation has been remarkable. … And Aramco’s commitment to your nation’s energy security and economic development is stronger than ever. From our initial crude cargo in 1991, to reaching almost 17% of China’s crude imports in the first half of this year, Aramco has safely and reliably supplied China with almost 7 billion barrels of oil … making us China’s #1 crude oil supplier. Even better, the barrels we supply have one of the world’s lowest Upstream carbon intensity footprints. Over these past 30 years, our bilateral relations have grown far beyond the buying and selling of crude oil, to a diversified investment portfolio, and even joint operations. These include refining projects such as the Fujian Refining & Petrochemical complex … and YASREF Joint Venture in Yanbu, Saudi Arabia … as well as a range of cutting-edge research and industry partnerships. And with SABIC now a part of Aramco’s global enterprise, we see a game-changer in Downstream opportunities, with a scale and mix of products to expand our investments and partnerships in China. As our President and CEO, Amin Nasser, expressed to a Chinese audience just last month … we are positioned to deliver this value “not just for the next five years, or even the next 50 … but far beyond.” Secondly, we recognize the urgency to balance economic and environmental goals. And we believe in the circular carbon economy approach, which was endorsed by the G20 Energy Ministers, as the framework for achieving the greatest impact. We want to work with China to leverage our industry leadership on emission reduction … as well as our innovations to reduce, reuse, recycle, and remove carbon dioxide … and bring about more sustainable energy solutions. For example, chemicals hold tremendous promise.  Here, we aim to leverage our cutting-edge direct crude-to-chemicals conversion technology and recycled, circular polymers. In addition, we are pursuing new sources of energy such as blue hydrogen … and we hope to expand our collaboration with China in areas including clean hydrogen and ammonia, combined with carbon capture and storage. And finally, human talent and technology remain our greatest resources.  Our Research Center in Beijing, and SABIC’s Technology Center in Shanghai, are working “at the speed of science” to support China’s efforts to become self-sufficient in groundbreaking, futuristic technologies. In fact, China is the hub from which Aramco supports our entire business across Asia, with an organization comprising 185 employees – more than 90% of whom are Chinese. And we have more than 80 Saudis fluent in Mandarin, having earned their degrees from Chinese universities.  These bonds run deep. So, ladies and gentlemen, my message today is one of respect and appreciation … Together, China and Aramco are making progress toward some very powerful goals. We are employing multiple levers to further strengthen our win-win partnership … from existing and new energy sources and advanced petrochemical materials … to technology, climate protection and people-to-people bonds. I thank you for your commitment to this partnership in progress as it grows in new directions. … And I wish you every success for a productive Expo. Thank you and xiè xie.  شِي شِيThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its second quarter 2021 financial results, reporting a 288% increase in net income from the same quarter of last year to $25.5 billion and declaring a dividend of $18.8 billion. The Company’s net income for the first half of the year was $47.2 billion, representing a 103% increase over the same period in 2020. The results were primarily driven by higher oil prices and a recovery in worldwide demand, supported by the global easing of COVID-19 restrictions, vaccination campaigns, stimulus measures and accelerating activity in key markets.  Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: 
“Our second quarter results reflect a strong rebound in worldwide energy demand and we are heading into the second half of 2021 more resilient and more flexible, as the global recovery gains momentum. While there is still some uncertainty around the challenges posed by COVID-19 variants, we have shown that we can adapt swiftly and effectively to changing market conditions. “Our historic $12.4 billion pipeline deal was an endorsement of our long-term business strategy by international investors, representing significant progress in our portfolio optimization program. Our landmark $6 billion Sukuk reinforced our robust balance sheet, further diversifying our funding sources and expanding our investor base. And, once again, we delivered a dividend of $18.8 billion for our shareholders. “We continue to move forward on a number of strategic programs, which focus on sustainability and low-carbon fuels, maximizing the value of our assets, and advancing our downstream integration and expansion journey. For all these reasons and more, I remain extremely positive about the second half of 2021 and beyond.”  Financial Highlights
Aramco’s net income was $25.5 billion in the second quarter of 2021, compared to $6.6 billion in the same quarter of 2020. Net income for the first half of 2021 was $47.2 billion, compared to $23.2 billion in the first half of 2020. The increase in both periods was primarily driven by higher crude oil prices, improved downstream margins and the consolidation of SABIC’s results, partially offset by lower crude oil volumes sold and higher crude oil production royalties. Free cash flow* was $22.6 billion in the second quarter and $40.9 billion for the first half of 2021, compared to $6.1 billion and $21.1 billion, respectively, for the same periods in 2020.  The gearing ratio*was 19.4% on June 30, compared with 23% on December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily due to higher cash and cash equivalents on June 30 2021, mainly driven by stronger operating cash flows and cash proceeds in connection with Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipelines transaction.   Capital expenditure was $7.5 billion in the second quarter and $15.7 billion for the first half of 2021, representing an increase of 20% and 15%, respectively, compared with the same periods in 2020. This increase was primarily due to the start of initial phases of construction and procurement activities relating to increment projects, demonstrating the company’s ability to mobilize capital to target growth opportunities, and the consolidation of SABIC’s capital expenditure. At the same time, the Company maintains a highly disciplined and flexible approach to capital allocation, and continues to expect its 2021 capital expenditure to be approximately $35 billion. Aramco closed a $12.4 billion pipeline infrastructure deal with an international consortium that acquired a 49% stake in the newly formed Aramco Oil Pipelines Company, in which Aramco remains the majority shareholder. Under a 25-year lease and leaseback agreement, Aramco Oil Pipelines Company will receive a tariff payable by Aramco for stabilized crude oil flows, backed by minimum volume commitments. This investment demonstrates investor confidence in the Company’s long-term outlook. The Company raised $6 billion through the sale of US dollar-denominated Shari’a-compliant securities to leading institutional investors. The issuance comprised three tranches of direct and unsecured Sukuk trust certificates issued under Aramco’s newly established International Sukuk Program. Funds raised were allocated for general corporate purposes.  Operational Highlights 
Aramco continued its strong track record of reliable supply, achieving 100% reliability in the delivery of crude oil and other products in the second quarter of 2021. The Company also demonstrated its reliable Upstream performance, with average total hydrocarbon production of 11.7 million barrels per day of oil equivalent in the second quarter of 2021.  The Company successfully completed and tied-in the ‘Ain Dar and Fazran crude oil increments during the second quarter. These increments target secondary reservoirs with a combined production capacity of 175 mbpd. Representing a significant step in SABIC becoming Aramco’s chemicals arm, Aramco is transferring the marketing and sales responsibility for a number of Aramco petrochemicals and polymers products to SABIC, and the offtake and resale responsibility of a number of SABIC products is being transferred to Aramco Trading Company (ATC). These changes are intended to focus SABIC on polymers and derivative products while ATC focuses on fuels, aromatics and MTBE, driving further operational efficiencies, strengthening the brands of both companies and improving overall competitiveness. Considerable synergies are being captured, mainly in procurement, supply chain, feedstock optimization, stream integration, operations and maintenance. The Company continued to contribute to COVID-19 vaccination efforts during the second quarter to protect its workforce and the wider community from the risk of infection. The Company’s ongoing vaccination campaign for employees and their families complements a government vaccine program, resulting in 95% of employees and 70% of their dependants receiving at least one dose by the end of June.  Aramco participated in the creation of Altamayyuz Finance and Accounting Excellence Academy, a collaboration between leading accountancy firms and investment banks to establish a center of excellence for finance and accounting in Saudi Arabia. The academy aims to build the capabilities of top finance and accounting graduates, supporting growth of the region’s financial services sector and forming a highly-skilled talent pool for the Company and other private and public employers.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comWith reference to recent reports claiming that the Company will embark on Bitcoin mining activities, Aramco confirms that these claims are completely false and inaccurate.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, wǎn shàng hǎo and good evening. I would like to thank the Ministry of Commerce and Shandong Province for the opportunity to speak at this Summit.  Special Bonds  Saudi Aramco already enjoys special bonds with China and its leading energy companies. Our safe and reliable supply of energy over many decades has been an important factor in the incredible transformation of China’s economy. Indeed, the rapidly growing importance of this Summit is another reminder of the scale and pace of progress. So we share your pride in China’s first centennial goal being met on July 1 and celebrated widely. And we are well-placed to help with your second centennial goal as well. Shared Strategic Priorities  In fact, we share many other strategic priorities. Our commitment to China’s continued energy security and economic development is stronger than ever. We want to add value in China with Chinese companies. And balancing economic goals with environmental goals is a priority the world shares.Practical Solutions In addition, with SABIC now part of Aramco’s global enterprise, we have the strategy, scale, and expanding mix of new and existing products to deliver the practical solutions China needs. Not just for the next five years or the next 50, but far beyond. Backed by the technology, global talent, and commitment to quality, safety, and sustainability we are known for. Win-Win Opportunities In turn, we see a special bond rapidly developing with Shandong across a range of substantial win-win opportunities. Shandong’s strength as a major energy and chemicals hub aligns perfectly with our strategy of playing a bigger role in China’s growth. Your efforts to create a low carbon downstream sector are impressive – for example in the Shandong Yulong Integrated Petrochemicals Project. We want to work with you on producing cleaner fuels, deploying technologies that will reduce or eliminate emissions. And chemicals products, leveraging our cutting-edge direct crude-to-chemicals conversion technology. At the same time we are pursuing new sources of energy such as blue hydrogen. Aramco’s Research Center in Beijing and SABIC’s Technology Center in Shanghai will support these efforts, as well as deepening collaboration with China’s top universities and companies. Conclusion Ladies and Gentlemen, shared priorities, ever-cleaner energy and chemicals products, and special bonds and partnerships. This powerful combination will enable sustained and common prosperity in both China and Shandong Province in the decades ahead. And we look forward to playing our part.   Thank you and xiè xie.Aramco and an international investor consortium, including EIG and Mubadala, today announced the successful closing of the share sale and purchase agreement, in which the consortium has acquired a 49% stake in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company, a subsidiary of Aramco, for $12.4 billion. The consortium consists of a broad cross-section of investors from North America, Asia and the Middle East. This long-term investment by the consortium underscores the compelling investment opportunity presented by Aramco’s globally-significant pipeline assets, the Company’s robust long-term outlook and the attractiveness of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to institutional investors. As part of the transaction, first announced in April 2021, Aramco Oil Pipelines Company and Aramco entered into a 25-year lease and leaseback agreement for Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipelines network. Aramco Oil Pipelines Company will receive a tariff payable by Aramco for stabilized crude oil flows, backed by minimum volume commitments. Aramco continues to hold a 51% majority stake in Aramco Oil Pipelines Company and retains full ownership and operational control of its stabilized crude oil pipeline network. The transaction does not impose any restrictions on Aramco’s actual crude oil production volumes, which are subject to production decisions made by the Kingdom. Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “We are pleased to conclude this transaction with the global consortium. The interest we have received from investors shows strong confidence in our operations and the long-term outlook for our business. It is a significant milestone that reflects the value of our assets and paves the way forward for our portfolio optimization strategy. We plan to continue to explore opportunities to capitalize on our industry-leading capabilities and attract the right type of investment to Saudi Arabia.”   Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, said: “The interest we received for this deal is evidence of continued confidence in our Company from institutional investors and sets a new benchmark for infrastructure transactions globally. This transaction utilizes our world-class pipeline infrastructure to create additional value for our shareholders, reinforcing our Company’s resilience and ability to adapt in a rapidly changing business environment.” R. Blair Thomas, EIG’s Chairman & CEO, said: “We believe this is the marquee infrastructure transaction globally and we are pleased to see that so many leading international investors agree with us.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco”) today announced it has successfully raised $6 billion, following the sale of US dollar-denominated Shariah-compliant securities to leading institutional investors.  The issuance comprised three tranches of senior unsecured Sukuk trust certificates issued under Aramco’s newly established International Sukuk Program, with the funds raised allocated for general corporate purposes. The three tranches included: Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “We are very pleased with the global investment community’s response to Aramco’s first international dollar Sukuk, which attracted demand 20 times the initial targeted issuance size. The outcome demonstrates further evidence of Aramco’s unique value proposition, which is underwritten by its operational and financial resilience. This is of course made possible by our employees, who continue to make a difference by safely and reliably delivering energy to the world.” Khalid Al-Dabbagh, Aramco Senior Vice President of Finance, Strategy and Development, said: “We are delighted with the strong reception for our inaugural international Sukuk offering that led to the largest order book ever recorded globally for a dollar-denominated Sukuk transaction, with orders exceeding $60 billion. The success of the transaction is a strong endorsement from the global investment community of our leading position in the industry, and our ability to deliver on our long-term business strategy. The issuance attracted more than 100 new investors across the globe.” The transaction settled on June 17, 2021 with the Sukuk admitted to the official list of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority, for trading on the London Stock Exchange’s main market.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco, Siemens Energy and the World Economic Forum (WEF) have launched a co-lead report on Cyber Resilience in the oil and gas industry. The report, “Cyber Resilience in the Oil and Gas Industry Playbook”, establishes a blueprint for boards and business leaders to evaluate cyber risk and enhance cyber resilience across the industry. More than 40 senior executives from the oil and gas industry contributed by identifying cyber resilience best practices and offered new solutions that will help board directors mitigate cyber threats, protect supply chains and improve overall security in the sector. The playbook sets out six principles to help the oil and gas companies advance their approach to cybersecurity, and complements the World Economic Forum’s ten broader cyber resilience principles which apply to all organizations.  The six principles of cyber-resilience for the oil and gas industry: Basim Al-Ruwaii, Chief Information Security Officer at Aramco said, “As a founding partner of the WEF Center for Cybersecurity, Aramco is proud to have collaborated with the World Economic Forum and business leaders from across the oil and gas sector to create this playbook, which aims to set the industry standard for improving cyber resilience. Establishing and aligning cybersecurity practices across the industry enhances our collective resilience efforts and allows us to present a united front against cybercrime and other critical security threats.”  Georges de Moura, Head of Industry Solutions, Centre for Cybersecurity, World Economic Forum said, “The Oil & Gas industry has developed a strong track record of safety, resilience and security practices for physical threats and must integrate cyber risks into this culture. This playbook will help business leaders in the industry embrace a risk-informed cybersecurity approach to ensure a secure and resilient Oil & Gas ecosystem.” Leo Simonovich, VP and Global Head, Industrial Cyber, Siemens Energy said, “Digitization is empowering the oil and gas sector to become ever more efficient, resilient and reliable — but it also opened vast new vulnerabilities to cyberattack. More than ever, cybersecurity has to be at the core of companies’ business models and operations, especially in the oil and gas industry. Effective defense depends on robust monitoring and detection — which means companies cannot act alone. Coordination and alignment is crucial; this latest playbook, drawing on insights from leaders across the oil and gas sector, reflects these efforts.” This program is one of the WEF Center for Cybersecurity’s ongoing activities to shape the future of cybersecurity and digital trust. Aramco is a founding member of the center, which promotes global collaboration and leads global initiatives across various sectors within the cybersecurity industry.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its first quarter financial results, posting a 30% year-on-year increase in net income to $21.7 billion and declaring a dividend of $18.8 billion to be paid in Q2. The results were underpinned by higher oil prices and an improved economic environment in the first three months of 2021. Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:  
“The momentum provided by the global economic recovery has strengthened energy markets, and Aramco’s operational flexibility, financial agility and the resilience of our employees have contributed to a strong first quarter performance. For our customers we remain a supplier of choice, and for our shareholders we continue to deliver an exceptional quarterly dividend.  “We made further progress towards our strategic objectives during the quarter and our portfolio optimization program continues to identify value creation opportunities, such as the recent announcement of our landmark $12.4 billion pipeline infrastructure deal. We also expect Saudi Arabia’s newly-launched Shareek program to present growth opportunities, through incentives which encourage partnerships and investment.  “Given the positive signs for energy demand in 2021, there are more reasons to be optimistic that better days are coming. And while some headwinds still remain, we are well-positioned to meet the world’s growing energy needs as economies start to recover.”

Financial Highlights
Aramco’s net income was $21.7 billion for the first quarter, a 30% increase from $16.7 billion in Q1 2020, primarily driven by a stronger oil market and higher refining and chemicals margins, partly offset by lower production.  Cash flow from operating activities and free cash flow* was $26.5 billion and $18.3 billion respectively in the first quarter, while first quarter capital expenditure stood at $8.2 billion.  Aramco's gearing ratio* remained unchanged at 23.0% on March 31, 2021, compared to December 31, 2020.  Aramco declared a dividend of $18.8 billion for the first quarter, to be paid in Q2 2021.  Operational Highlights  Aramco demonstrated reliable upstream performance with an average total hydrocarbon production of 11.5 million barrels per day of oil equivalent in the first quarter of 2021, including 8.6 million barrels per day of crude oil.  The Company maintained its exceptional track record as a global energy supplier, achieving 100% reliability in its deliveries to customers during the first quarter.  In January, Aramco partnered with STC, a leading telecom and technology services company, to launch one of the world’s most powerful supercomputers, Dammam 7. Its high-performance computing capability of 55.4 petaflops presents new opportunities in both exploration and development, enhancing Aramco’s ability to predict the location of new reserves using sophisticated imaging and artificial intelligence deep learning technologies. Dammam 7 supports Aramco’s digital transformation program, complementing a suite of advanced technologies that are reshaping core operations, driving efficiencies and reinforcing its industry leadership. During the first quarter, Aramco and The Dow Chemical Company, partners in the Sadara Chemical Company (Sadara) joint venture, entered into agreements relating to their Sadara joint venture. This includes extending the debt repayment tenure, a grace period for interest payments and sponsor guarantees. It further includes other agreements with respect to procurement of feedstock and marketing rights for Sadara’s finished products.  Aramco planted more than 500,000 trees during the first quarter, successfully completing its program to plant one million trees. The program’s main objective is to mitigate desertification, sequester carbon, and enhance native biodiversity. The One Million Trees Initiative aligns with the United Nations Biodiversity and Sustainability Development Goals, and is part of the Company’s commitment to protecting the environment.  The Company also contributed to COVID-19 vaccination efforts during the first quarter to protect its workforce and the wider community from the risk of infection. As of April 30, more than 178,000 Aramco employees, retirees and their dependents had received vaccinations. This includes around 85% of the Aramco workforce. These were administered either through Aramco’s vaccination program, being conducted from 14 locations across Saudi Arabia in conjunction with its medical partner Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare, or through a government vaccination scheme. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSABIC will focus on petrochemicals and Aramco Trading Company will focus on fuel products Changes reflect that SABIC is now the chemicals arm of Aramco, in line with long-term strategy Together, Aramco Trading Company and SABIC are focused on providing a world-class products and services offering to global customers Aramco and SABIC today announce their intention to transfer the marketing and sales responsibility for a number of Aramco petrochemicals and polymers products to SABIC, and the offtake and resale responsibility of a number of SABIC products to Aramco Trading Company (ATC). The effect of these changes, planned to be implemented on a phased basis during 2021, subject to the necessary consents being obtained, will focus SABIC on petrochemicals products and ATC on fuel products. This is a significant step in aligning the Aramco and SABIC strategies, following Aramco’s acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC in June 2020. Aramco and SABIC will continue to review options for further global marketing and sales transfers across product-producing companies within the Aramco group portfolio. Benefiting customers
The changes will drive further operational efficiencies, strengthen the brands of both companies and their combined products and services offering, and help to maintain competitiveness. Customers will benefit from improved product range and availability, ordering and points of sale, supply chain, shipping reliability, and after-market services and solutions. Ibrahim Al-Buainain, Aramco Trading Company President and CEO, said: “The transfers reflect our shared commitment to capitalize on the complementary nature of Aramco and SABIC’s respective product portfolios as we strive to create added value for our customers and shareholders. “Together, Aramco Trading Company and SABIC are focused on providing a world-class products and services offering. These changes will place us in an even stronger position to deliver market-leading innovation and value.” Abdulrahman Al-Fageeh, SABIC Executive Vice President - Petrochemicals, said: “By leveraging and optimizing our complementary combined product portfolios we will create a one-stop shop for the benefit of our customers globally, including in strategically important geographies, especially across Asia. “These marketing and sales transfers and operational changes are intended to put us closer to market, driving greater agility and flexibility to deliver added value to customers and power their ambition.” About the marketing and sales transfers and changes 
Responsibility for the global marketing and sales of certain Aramco petrochemicals and polymers products and those of its joint ventures and affiliates will transfer to SABIC, initially focused on:  PRefChem (Pengerang Petrochemical Company Sdn. Bhd.); SADARA (Sadara Chemical Company); and, S-Oil Corporation (S-Oil Corporation, South Korea). After completing the consolidation of petrochemical products, SABIC will market the following products, which include both existing products and extensions to its portfolio: HDPE, LLDPE, LDPE, PP copolymer, PP homopolymer, PP terpolymer, ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer(EVA),  PMMA, PA6, MEG, DEG, TEG, Mono-Ethanolamine (MEA), Di-Ethanolamine (DEA), Tri-Ethanolamine (TEA), Ethylene diamine (EDA), DiEthyleneTriamine (DETA), ortho-Toluenediamine, Polymeric Methylene Diphenol Diisocyanate (PMDI), Toluene diisocyanate (TDI), Propylene Glycols, Polyols, Propylene Oxide, MMA, Butyl Glycol Ether, Acetone and Phenol. In parallel, responsibility for offtake, resale and sourcing of a number of existing SABIC fuel products globally (Benzene, MTBE, gasoline blending components and EU cracker feedstocks) will transfer from SABIC to ATC. Sales of Aramco Para-Xylene will remain with ATC. A number of marketing and sales transfer exclusions currently apply, and there are therefore no changes planned to the following:  About the commercial and supply chain activity transfers and changes
Responsibility for the commercial aspects of liquid bulk marine shipping services will be consolidated under ATC (including chemicals and feedstock), while responsibility for the shipping of all solid products and customer product delivery will be consolidated under SABIC.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com Aramco has signed a deal with a consortium led by EIG Global Energy Partners (“EIG”), one of the world’s leading energy infrastructure investors, to optimize its assets through a lease-and-lease-back agreement involving its stabilized crude oil pipeline network.  Upon closing, Aramco will receive upfront proceeds of around $12.4 billion, further strengthening its balance sheet through one of the largest energy infrastructure deals globally.  The transaction represents a continuation of Aramco’s strategy to unlock the potential of its asset base and maximize value for its shareholders. It also reinforces Aramco’s role as a catalyst for attracting significant foreign investment into the Kingdom. As part of the transaction, a newly-formed Aramco subsidiary, Aramco Oil Pipelines Company, will lease usage rights in Aramco’s stabilized crude oil pipelines network for a 25-year period. In return, Aramco Oil Pipelines Company will receive a tariff payable by Aramco for the stabilized crude oil that flows through the network, backed by minimum volume commitments. Aramco will hold a 51% majority stake in the new company and the EIG-led consortium will hold a 49% stake. Aramco will continue to retain full ownership and operational control of its stabilized crude oil pipeline network. The transaction will not impose any restrictions on Aramco’s actual crude oil production volumes that are subject to production decisions issued by the Kingdom. Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “This landmark transaction defines the way forward for our portfolio optimization program. We are capitalizing on new opportunities that also align strategically with the Kingdom’s recently-launched Shareek program. Aramco’s strong capital structure will be further enhanced with this transaction, which in turn will help maximize returns for our shareholders. Additionally, our long-term partners in this venture will benefit from investment in one of the world’s most robust energy infrastructures. Moving forward, we will continue to explore opportunities that underpin our strategy of long-term value creation.”  Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi, Aramco Senior Vice President of Corporate Development, said: “In addition to strengthening our balance sheet, this deal sets a new benchmark for infrastructure transactions both regionally and internationally. It is a vote of confidence in our long-term outlook by EIG and other heavyweights in the investment world and reflects the significant progress we are making in our portfolio optimization program. This transaction unlocks value from our assets and strengthen Aramco’s resilience, agility and ability to respond to changing market dynamics.”  R. Blair Thomas, EIG’s Chairman & CEO, said: “We are honored to partner with Aramco, an undisputed industry leader, on this landmark transaction.  Aramco’s oil pipeline network is a marquee global infrastructure asset. We look forward to investing in this infrastructure which is critical to the global economy, and to driving value for our institutional investors worldwide.”   The long-term investment by EIG and other institutional investors underscores the compelling investment opportunity represented by Aramco’s globally-significant pipeline assets, the Company’s long-term outlook and the attractiveness of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as a desirable investment destination for international investors. The transaction is expected to close as soon as practicable, subject to customary closing conditions, including any required merger control and related approvals. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced its creation and participation in the launch of Altamayyuz Finance and Accounting Excellence Academy, a first-of-its-kind collaboration between leading accountancy firms and investment banks which establishes a center of excellence for finance and accounting.  The academy is the result of a strategic alliance that will provide an exclusive financial and accounting development framework derived from world-class programs and partnerships with leading business schools and companies. It aims to build the capabilities of top finance and accounting graduates in Saudi Arabia, helping to power the growth of financial services in the region and form a highly-skilled talent pool for private and public employers. Aramco has partnered with the Technical & Vocational Training Corporation, Saudi National Bank (SNB), HSBC, Citi Bank, J.P. Morgan, KPMG, Goldman Sachs, Deloitte, EY and Morgan Stanley to launch Altamayyuz Academy.   Aramco Chairman, H.E. Yasir Al-Rumayyan, said: “I am pleased to inaugurate Altamayyuz Academy, which is the latest in a long list of distinguished Aramco initiatives serving this ambitious country. The academy will support the advancement of Saudi employees in the financial sector through unique programs offered in co-ordination with some of the world’s leading financial institutions, providing an opportunity to upgrade both their skills and experience. The inauguration of the academy coincides with the fifth anniversary of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 and it aligns closely with the country’s aspirations for the future. This academy will play an effective role in enriching the financial, investment and accounting sectors, further enabling the economic renaissance currently underway in the Kingdom."  Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “Saudi Arabia is witnessing tremendous development, which will be further enhanced through the provision of quality training opportunities for our ambitious young professionals. At Aramco we are dedicated to equipping future generations with the skills they need to succeed, not only in the energy sector but in other fields where they can make a positive difference, including in the financial services sector. Altamayyuz will harness the expertise of some of the world’s most prestigious international financial and accounting firms, helping develop the skills of young graduates from both the public and private sectors. In doing so it will instill a spirit of excellence in talented young professionals – and help spur the pioneering development underway across the nation in support of Vision 2030.” Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh, Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Finance, Strategy and Development, said: “Meeting the challenges of tomorrow requires investing in the graduates of today so we stay ahead of the curve. With Altamayyuz Academy, we are creating a valuable source of talent and an active national partner in creating a thriving financial sector in Saudi Arabia. The program will help unlock the full potential of the Kingdom’s human capital by accelerating skills building and knowledge transfer to our top talent. We not only turn great aspirations into reality, but we foster a future proofed sustainable economy.” Atamayuzz Academy offers a world-class finance program for the Kingdom’s top graduates, which fuses international technical knowledge with market expertise. The program methodology is immersive, interactive, and experiential, with participants continuously networking with experts and industry leaders via seminars, case studies, career counselling, coaching, and mentoring. Participants in the academy’s programs will have the opportunity to study the latest techniques and knowledge in financial accounting, fintech, management accounting, capital markets and Islamic finance, mergers and acquisitions, and financial modeling through an intensive curriculum delivered in collaboration with Spain's IE University. They will have access to coaching sessions and a fintech immersion week in San Francisco, in partnership with Stanford University.  Atamayuzz Academy programs have now commenced and a typical program will last for six months.  For more information, visit www.al-tamayyuz.com or email info@al-tamayyuz.com.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and the American Concrete Institute (ACI) announce the launch of NEx: A Center of Excellence for Nonmetallic Building Materials to develop and promote the use of nonmetallic materials in the building and construction sector.  Based at ACI World Headquarters in Farmington Hills, Michigan, USA, NEx will focus on accelerating the use of nonmetallic materials and products in construction, leveraging ACI’s role as a world-leading authority and resource for the development, dissemination and adoption of consensus-based standards for concrete design, construction and materials.  “The Center’s mission will be to collaborate globally on using nonmetallic materials in the built environment by driving research, education, awareness and technology adoption,” said Jeffrey W. Coleman, ACI President. “Expanding incorporation of nonmetallic materials and products in the built environment will improve sustainability, contribute to a lower carbon footprint, and enhance the durability and longevity of structures.”  Commenting on the launch of NEx, Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, Ahmad Al-Sa’adi, said: “Aramco has been developing and deploying nonmetallic solutions within our own operations for more than 20 years as they offer superior lifecycle cost, efficiency and environmental advantages over their metal alternatives.” He added: “The potential for using nonmetallic advanced polymetric materials, however, goes way beyond the oil and gas sector and includes the building and construction industries where there is significant potential. That is why this new Center of Excellence for Nonmetallic Building Materials offers enormous and exciting opportunities.” Aramco is already a leader in the use of nonmetallic materials in oil and gas facilities to reduce corrosion, weight and the cost of construction and operation. This initiative with ACI is part of the Company’s broader strategy to enter new markets, leveraging its hydrocarbon resources and technology to deliver advanced polymeric materials solutions across industries.  Nonmetallic materials are increasingly being deployed across multiple industries, including oil and gas, construction, automotive, packaging and renewables. They offer several advantages over metallic materials, such as corrosion-resistance, reduced weight, increased durability, lower cost, and improved environmental efficiency. Over the past four decades, the American Concrete Institute has been convening the industry’s brightest minds to advance nonmetallic technologies. With numerous published guides, reports, and specifications on nonmetallics in concrete, including fiber-reinforced polymers and fiber reinforced concrete, NEx will serve as a catalyst to incorporate more than 40 years of knowledge into the further acceleration of nonmetallic materials and technology.  “Our founding member, Aramco, aligns with our vision to effectively meet the demands of a changing world by setting standards for the development and adoption of nonmetallic materials in building and construction,” added Mr. Coleman. “ACI is pleased to have Aramco’s support in leading this dialogue with industry stakeholders around the world.”  The Center plans to expand its scope to include the use of nonmetallics in other construction materials, such as composite cladding, asphalt and soil. The Center looks to draw additional partners from leading academic institutions, industries, technical societies, standard bodies, manufacturers and professionals.  To learn more about how NEx is advancing nonmetallics and to get involved, visit nonmetallic.org.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its full-year 2020 results, demonstrating exceptional resilience despite the macroeconomic impact of COVID-19 and delivering on its intended dividend payments to shareholders. Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:   “In one of the most challenging years in recent history, Aramco demonstrated its unique value proposition through its considerable financial and operational agility. Our exceptional performance during such testing times owed much to the unwavering spirit and resilience of our employees, who set operational records and continued to meet the world’s energy needs both safely and reliably. “As the enormous impact of COVID-19 was felt throughout the global economy, we intensified our strong emphasis on capital and operational efficiencies. As a result, our financial position remained robust and we declared a dividend of $75 billion for 2020. “At the same time, the accelerated deployment of digital technologies across the company significantly enhanced our performance and we continued to make progress on breakthrough low-carbon solutions. “Looking ahead, our long-term strategy to optimize our oil and gas portfolio is on track and, as the macro environment improves, we are seeing a pick-up in demand in Asia and also positive signs elsewhere. We remain confident that we will emerge on the other side of this pandemic in a position of strength.” 

Financial Highlights
Aramco achieved a net income of $49 billion in 2020, one of the highest earnings of any public company globally. The Company displayed strong financial resilience in one of the most challenging periods for the industry, during which revenues were impacted by lower crude oil prices and volumes sold, and weakened refining and chemicals margins. 
Aramco declared a dividend of $75 billion for the year, which reflects the outcome of the Company’s strong performance. The Company continues to preserve a strong balance sheet and its gearing ratio at December 31, 2020, was among the lowest in its industry. Meanwhile, its ROACE of 13.2% was the highest in the industry. Through its flexible capital program and prudent financial management, the Company was able to adjust spending and focus on high-return opportunities. Capital expenditure in 2020 was $27 billion due to the implementation of optimization and efficiency programs, representing a significant saving on capital expenditure of $33 billion in 2019. The Company continues to assess its capital expenditure and efficiency programs, and expects capital expenditure for 2021 to be around $35 billion, significantly lower than the previous guidance of $40-$45 billion.  Aramco’s international bond issuance in the fourth quarter achieved record demand for a 50-year tranche and was 10 times oversubscribed compared to its initial offering size. This global investor interest demonstrated market confidence in the Company’s long-term strategy and performance outlook. Operational Highlights 
In 2020, Aramco’s average hydrocarbon production was 12.4 million barrels per day of oil equivalent, including 9.2 million barrels per day (mmbpd) of crude oil. In April, Aramco achieved the highest single day crude oil production in its history of 12.1 million barrels per day. The Company achieved another milestone in August, producing a single-day record of 10.7 billion standard cubic feet per day (bscfd) of natural gas from its conventional and unconventional fields. Both records were achieved despite lower capital expenditure in 2020. Aramco continued its strong track record of supply reliability, despite disruptions caused by COVID-19, by delivering crude oil and other products with 99.9% reliability in 2020.  Aramco’s ambition to further expand its downstream business took a significant step forward with the acquisition of a majority stake in SABIC in June, transforming the Company into a major global petrochemical player with operations in more than 50 countries. In 2020, Aramco also announced a Downstream reorganization intended to maximize value from its global network of assets. Technology and innovation are key to delivering more energy with fewer emissions. Aramco continued to make advances in cutting-edge technology and received a company record of 683 U.S. patents in 2020 - among the highest in its industry.  Aramco maintained one of the lowest upstream carbon footprints in the industry, achieving an estimated upstream carbon intensity of 10.5 Kg of CO2 per barrel of oil equivalent in 2020. The Company’s estimated upstream methane intensity was 0.06%. These accomplishments are the result of the Company’s decades-long reservoir management and production approach, which includes leveraging advanced technologies and minimizing emissions and flaring.  The Company is well positioned to capitalize on developments in hydrogen, given the Company’s scale, infrastructure, low costs and low upstream carbon intensity.
One promising area is the conversion of hydrocarbons to hydrogen and then to ammonia, while capturing the CO2 created during the process. In August, Aramco exported the world’s first shipment of high-grade blue ammonia to Japan for use in zero-carbon power generation, a significant step towards sustainable hydrogen usage. In January 2020, Aramco joined the Hydrogen Council as a steering member. The organization promotes collaboration between governments, industry and investors to provide guidance on accelerating the deployment of hydrogen solutions globally.  COVID-19 Update
Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco has remained committed to the safety of its people, establishing protocols to monitor and limit the spread of the virus. The Company has assisted its staff and communities around the world through measures such as employee resource programs, medical support services and monetary donations. 
Beyond its own employees and operations, the Company has supported the healthcare sector, supplying ventilators, air purification devices and protective equipment for health practitioners and patients.  An employee donations campaign, “Stay Home, Stay Safe,” directed help toward the most vulnerable, with employees’ donations matched 100% by the Company. Aramco’s regional affiliates donated cash and medical supplies to organizations in Asia, Europe and the United States. Additional information on Aramco’s support efforts and response to COVID-19 can be found in more detail on a dedicated webpage here.

*Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, wǎn shàng hǎo and good evening. Your Excellency, thank you for sharing your insights, and reminding us that better days are coming.Because of President Xi’s visionary leadership, and the resilience and determination of the Chinese people, China’s economy is recovering faster than anywhere else. Indeed, we congratulate China on meeting its first centennial goal. Achievements like alleviating absolute poverty and doubling the GDP per capita of Chinese citizens in just over a decade are truly remarkable. Future Economic Development But this landmark moment only sets the stage for even more ambitious economic development. Being a top supplier of China’s energy needs, Aramco is well-placed to help China achieve its second centennial goal. We also appreciate that sustainable energy solutions are crucial to a faster and smoother global energy transition. So are realistic roadmaps and practical priorities. One priority is developing new energy infrastructure, and fixing the technical and economic challenges new sources of energy face. But, realistically, this will take some time since there are few alternatives to oil in many areas. That is why we believe new and existing energy sources will need to run in parallel for quite some time to come. To support the aims of the Paris Agreement during this interim period, the practical implication is therefore clear. We must further reduce the carbon footprint of these important existing sources of energy. It is an essential worldwide mission for economies and societies, and the future of our planet. And it is precisely what we are doing at Aramco.Three Overlapping Priorities In turn, we believe that our priorities overlap with China’s in three key areas. First, ensuring the continuing security of China’s energy needs remains our highest priority – not just for the next five years but for the next 50 and beyond. Second, we see opportunities for further investments in integrated downstream projects to help meet China’s needs for heavy transport and chemicals, as well as lubricants and non-metallic materials. Third, to help China meet its innovation, modernization, and sustainability goals, Aramco’s Research Center in Beijing is already working with Chinese universities and companies in areas like: In fact, we have even bolder ambitions to expand and intensify our research collaboration with China. Additional collaboration is likely on blue hydrogen from hydrocarbon resources and low carbon products; blue ammonia; synthetic fuels; carbon capture, utilization, and storage; and materials science. All of these are essential to achieving our long-term, low carbon ambitions. Ladies and Gentlemen, as a new era begins, we look forward to contributing even more to China’s economic development and common prosperity. Everything from the 14th Five Year Plan, Dual Circulation, and Belt and Road to peak greenhouse gas emissions by 2030, 2035 Goals, the 2nd Centennial Goal by 2049, and net carbon neutrality by 2060. And every step of the way we aim to be side-by-side with our Chinese partners, delivering these strategic, value-adding, parallel priorities. Thank you, and xiè xiè.In its press release of 3rd March 2021, Hyundai Heavy Industries Holdings (HHIH) announced a non-binding MoU for a research and development opportunity, not a commercial agreement. Aramco is exploring with HHIH collaboration on research and development opportunities in blue hydrogen and ammonia. Utilization and application in targeted markets in South Korea are also part of the collaboration; and there is no intention for any CO2 transportation.  A related aspect of the MoU is also to study other after treatment technologies for marine fuels.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and stc announced today the launch of Dammam 7, a new supercomputer among the top ten most powerful in the world. The supercomputer presents new opportunities in both exploration and development and enhances Aramco’s decision-making on exploration and investment decisions. This is the next step in Aramco’s digital transformation, complementing a suite of advanced technologies that are reshaping core operations, driving efficiencies and reinforcing its industry leadership in geoscience. Developed at Dhahran Techno Valley in partnership with Solutions, a subsidiary of stc Group, and CRAY, a Hewlett Packard Enterprise subsidiary, Dammam 7 has 55.4 petaflops of peak computing power, allowing it to process and image the world’s largest geophysical datasets. The Dammam 7 supercomputer, named after the first oil well discovered in Saudi Arabia, will push beyond the traditional boundaries of exploration and production through cutting edge technology. Sophisticated imaging and deep-learning algorithms will allow it to run very detailed 3D earth models, improving the Company’s ability to discover and recover oil and gas while reducing exploration and development risks. It will further enhance decision-making for exploration and development of conventional and unconventional hydrocarbon resources, as well as guide future investments in production and resource allocation.    Aramco President & CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said:  
"The Dammam 7 supercomputer is named after the first commercial oil well discovered in 1938. It will help us with breakthroughs as part of our long term “Discovery and Recovery” strategy in our Upstream business. This technology that processes complex data faster will enable new discoveries and enhanced recoveries, which are crucial to both ensuring the availability of adequate supply to meet the demand for energy and to cut costs while boosting productivity. Continuous investment in innovative technology is an essential enabler of our Company’s long-term growth strategy, and Dammam 7 is another step in our plan to invest in the right technology that drives production efficiency and resilience." stc Group CEO, Nasser S. Al-Nasser, said: 
"The inauguration of the supercomputer data center in Aramco will open up new horizons in exploration, which will have a significant impact on data digitization and quality. These are in line with the digital transformation plans of the desired national outlook, and we are proud to have worked with locals to establish Dammam 7 Center."Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced a strategic alliance with SAP Saudi Arabia to expand the digitalization of its Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems. The agreement with SAP is another step in Aramco’s digital transformation journey, paving the way for further integration of new technologies in a rapidly evolving technological landscape. The SAP ERP system will deepen the deployment of innovative IR4.0 technologies including cloud-based services, embedded analytics, mobility, machine learning, artificial intelligence, advanced analytics and Internet-of-Things solutions. By extending the strategic alliance with SAP Saudi Arabia, Aramco’s contribution to the in-Kingdom business ecosystem will be enhanced through job creation, training and by localizing supplier services and R&D. In addition to enabling greater efficiencies, SAP’s Data Center in Saudi Arabia will offer new cloud solutions to Aramco and other companies. Ahmad A. Al Sa'adi, Aramco Senior Vice-President of Technical Services, said: 
“We are committed to our digital transformation program, which is improving our ability to meet the needs of our customers around the world and setting a new standard for technology deployment in our industry. Technologies and solutions within digital transformation initiatives will touch all facets of our operations. This is just one more example of how we are applying best practice in this space and embracing 4IR solutions. It is an important milestone on our digital journey and also contributes to our iktva target.” Luka Mucic, Member of the Executive Board of SAP SE, Chief Financial Officer, said:
“In 23 years of strong collaboration, Aramco and SAP have become strategic partners. With numerous co-innovation initiatives, we have jointly introduced oil and gas best practices, enhanced business operations, and expanded the horizon of opportunities in this industry. Aramco has taken the next step on their digital transformation journey and towards becoming an Intelligent Enterprise, implementing S/4 HANA and the Business Technology Platform amongst others." SAP’s new platform will serve the entire Aramco organization, supporting the Company’s Digital Transformation Program and enabling new processes for a majority of the company’s enterprise applications and solutions. The new architecture leverages emerging technologies that will propel Aramco into a new era of Intelligent Enterprise and benefits include faster processing, intuitive user experience, real-time reporting, integration with cloud solutions and system consolidation, which reduces total cost of ownership.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabia Cloud region added to Google Cloud Platform global network Agreement between Saudi Aramco Development Company, a subsidiary of Aramco, and Google Cloud paves way for rollout of high-performance, low-latency cloud services Opportunity taps into rapidly expanding cloud services demand in Saudi Arabia  Saudi Aramco Development Company, a subsidiary of Aramco, today announced it had teamed up with Google Cloud to offer high-performance, low-latency cloud services to enterprise customers in Saudi Arabia. The Kingdom is being added to the global network of Google Cloud Platform regions, as part of a strategic alliance agreement signed between the Company and Google Cloud this month. Google Cloud will establish and operate a new cloud region in Saudi Arabia, while a new company will be formed following all required regulatory clearances to supply cloud solutions and services to enterprise customers, with an emphasis on businesses inside Saudi Arabia.  This new cloud region will allow organizations nationwide to grow and scale their offerings, while delivering digital products and services faster and more reliably. The collaboration taps into rapidly expanding cloud services demand in Saudi Arabia, which is forecasted to reach a market opportunity up to $10 billion by 2030. Increased dependence on online services during the COVID-19 pandemic has further accelerated the shift toward digital solutions. The rollout of Google Cloud services and infrastructure in Saudi Arabia will deliver robust, reliable and agile solutions to meet growing demand for IT and cloud services. Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services, Ahmad Al Sa’adi, said: “We live in a world driven by data, and it is essential that companies not only have secure infrastructure to protect enterprise data, but also the tools that enable them to make the best use of it. Bringing Google Cloud to Saudi Arabia will deliver significant benefits, both now and in the future, and we are grateful to the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology for supporting this initiative. The future of Saudi Arabia’s business transformation and growth depends on its ability to successfully leverage cloud services.” Google Cloud CEO Thomas Kurian said : “We are committed to helping businesses modernize and accelerate their digital transformations with Google Cloud. With this agreement, Google Cloud's innovative technology and solutions will be available to global customers and enterprises in Saudi Arabia to enable them to better serve end consumers." Google Cloud offers its customers multiple solutions, including artificial intelligence, smart analytics, data management, security, infrastructure and application modernization. It delivers these services globally while matching 100 percent of the energy used to power its operations with renewable energy.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and Cognite will establish a new company that will focus on digitalization in Saudi Arabia and the broader Middle East and North Africa region. The JV will develop, distribute and deploy end-to-end digital and advanced solutions for customers across industries, including oil and gas, power and utilities, manufacturing and shipping. The solutions will enable the digital transformation of companies through production and yield optimization, predictive maintenance, workforce digitalization, advanced safety measures and a reduced environmental footprint of industrial operations. The JV will leverage Cognite’s flagship industrial data platform, Cognite Data Fusion, as its core technology and will harness state-of-the-art cloud capabilities for data hosting, analytics and artificial intelligence.  Aramco and Cognite expect the JV to be operational in 2021, following receipt of all required regulatory clearances. Aramco Senior Vice-President of Technical Services, Ahmad Al Sa’adi, said: 
“Aramco has pursued an ambitious Digital Transformation Program with the goal of transforming the Company into the world's leading digitalized energy corporation, maximizing value for shareholders and spearheading digital innovation in the energy sector globally. The JV with Cognite aims to create advanced end-to-end digital software solutions in Saudi Arabia, which will maximize local content, contribute to GDP growth, create new jobs, accelerate digital talent development and sustain Aramco’s resilience.” Øyvind Eriksen, President and CEO of Aker ASA and Chairman of Cognite’s Board of Directors said: 
“We are committed to making our strategic partnership with the world’s largest integrated oil and gas company a resounding success. We believe Aramco’s deep operational expertise, combined with Cognite’s track record of developing and deploying industrial software for digital frontrunners, will be a powerful catalyst for the commercial success of the joint venture and the advancement of digital transformation across heavy-asset industries.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and Baker Hughes (NYSE:BKR) have announced the formation of Novel, a 50/50 Joint Venture (JV) to develop and commercialize a broad range of non-metallic products for multiple applications in the energy sector. A ceremony was held today at the project site to commence construction, which was attended by Aramco’s Senior Vice President for Technical Services Ahmad Al Sa’adi and Baker Hughes Chairman and CEO Lorenzo Simonelli. The ceremony comes after both companies signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) to create a non-metallics JV in July 2019.  Novel’s new facility is being developed at King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), in Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province. SPARK is a 50-square-kilometer energy city megaproject which will position Saudi Arabia as a global energy, industrial and technology hub. Initially, the facility will produce onshore non-metallic pipelines – including reinforced thermoplastic pipes (RTP) – from composite materials. The JV is based on a shareholders agreement signed in February this year during Aramco’s 5th In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) Forum & Exhibition. The JV aligns with Aramco’s strategy to seek new opportunities in oil-based products, which not only offer performance benefits but also aims to reduce carbon emissions. It also supports Saudi Arabia’s efforts to expand its commercial ecosystem and promote domestic investment. The new facility will not only create jobs, it will also help foster growth of an emerging and innovative sector in alignment with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. Aramco’s Senior Vice President for Technical Services, Ahmad Al Sa’adi said: 
“Non-metallic products are reshaping the industries and products we all depend on because they are more reliable, cost effective and offer sustainability benefits. The partnership with Baker Hughes reinforces our commitment to expanding the use of innovative non-metallic materials in our operations to drive efficiency and reduce maintenance and replacement costs, while also positively impacting the Kingdom’s economic development through job creation and local expertise.” 
 Neil Saunders, Executive Vice President, Oilfield Equipment, Baker Hughes, said: “As an energy technology company, we are investing for growth in strategic areas like non-metallics, and our deep background in non-metallic product development will benefit a wide range of industries. Aramco’s vision to expand its product development in the region aligns with our vision to support innovation and manufacturing in Saudi Arabia.”
 
Non-metallic products are being deployed in a variety of industries, from the oil and gas sector to automotive, building and construction, packaging and renewables. In addition to being more sustainable, these advanced materials make them lighter than their conventional counterparts and resistant to corrosion. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco today announced the expansion of its flagship program to increase local content and boost domestic supply chains. It is a significant milestone in the company’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) program, which marks its fifth anniversary on December 1st. The expansion includes plans for new international partnerships and the establishing of companies through an Industrial Investment Program (IIP), which is linked to the development of Aramco's business.   Aramco has signed MoUs with Shell & AMG Recycling BV (AMG) from the Netherlands; Chinese firms Suzhou XDM, Shen Gong, Xinfoo and SUPCON; and Posco from South Korea. These strategic collaborations pave the way for the launch of new businesses across multiple innovative growth sectors, including steel plate manufacturing, industrial 3D printing, digital equipment manufacturing, energy management and control; catalyst manufacturing and recycling, and advanced chip and smart sensor manufacturing.   These new collaborations reflect Aramco’s commitment to increasing the company’s reliability and operational efficiency, as well as its commitment to further enhancing the Kingdom’s commercial ecosystem and increasing employment and development opportunities for talented Saudis. Since iktva’s launch, Aramco’s local content index has increased from 35% at the end of 2015 to 56%. Amin H. Nasser, Aramco’s President & Chief Executive Officer, said: “Today’s announcement is a step change in Aramco’s pioneering IKTVA program which was launched in 2015.  Despite the uncertainties surrounding the global economy, we have sustained our focus on our long-term goals to enable growth and development for a thriving ecosystem and a more diversified Saudi economy.  “These new partnerships will contribute to advancing innovation, sustainability and enhance the scale of reliability in our business ecosystem and, in addition, benefit companies operating in the Kingdom's vast energy and chemicals sector. These partnerships will also have a strong focus on new technologies, by maximizing our investments in non-metallic materials and the circular carbon economy, as well as the development of talented Saudis in communities where we operate.”  Ahmad Al-Saadi, Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Technical Services, said: “Aramco has a long history of supporting the local business ecosystem. Our iktva program is a manifestation of our commitment to this and the resulting investments, either directly by Aramco or indirectly by suppliers, have promoted localization, contributed to Aramco’s supply chain resilience and enhanced Saudi Arabia’s economic growth. Our planned partnerships will continue this journey and advance the Kingdom’s economic progress. We intend to act as an enabler, supporting the growth of national champions. Today we are expanding our flagship program, and expect more partnerships in the future.” Saudi Aramco has concluded MoUs with the following companies:Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco has today announced a new contracting strategy for the Company’s oil and gas brownfield and plant upgrade projects. The strategy focuses on establishing new businesses and developing partnerships based on sustainability and new technologies via Aramco's giant projects by awarding long-term contracts to reputable and experienced contractors to improve cost efficiency and the quality and safety of the projects. Following Aramco’s approval of the new contracting strategy, contractors’ companies were invited to submit their proposals, and after a thorough evaluation process, eight companies have been selected to carry out the work: The scope of the LTAs includes engineering, procurement, construction, start-up and pre-commissioning of each project, as well as the installation of the upgraded facilities in the designated operating areas. The contracts are established for a period of six years with an option to exercise another six years extension. In addition, the contracts are developed with a special emphasis on improving Saudization, local content and supply chains through Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, helping Aramco to meet its IKTVA targets. The contracts mandate a minimum commitment to use 39% local content and supply chains initially, increasing to a 60% commitment within six years.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, wǎn shàng hǎo and good evening. It is unfortunate that we cannot be together in Beijing because of Covid-19. But the global leadership China has shown in tackling this global pandemic has been truly impressive.    If the rest of the world can match China’s determination to create economic momentum while continuing to take strong protective measures, then I am sure we will reunite far sooner.   For everyone around the world, 2020 has been a tough year. A great deal of uncertainty still lies ahead. It has also reminded the world of an unavoidable truth: that reliable, affordable, and sustainable energy systems are mission-critical to delivering economic prosperity and meeting society’s expectations.  Delivering those systems requires a clear vision and a pathway to success. That is why China’s 2035 targets, together with President Xi’s inspirational Dual Circulation Strategy and goal of carbon neutrality by 2060, resonate loud and clear with us. They align closely with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030, and the Circular Carbon Economy approach recently endorsed by G20 Energy Ministers. And Aramco can make a distinct and meaningful contribution to these strategic priorities.In particular, our acquisition of SABIC with its world-class chemicals capabilities, combined with Aramco’s world-leading strength as an energy supplier, means we now offer a one-stop-source to China. One that is ready to enhance China’s autonomy in vital areas, add value inside China working with Chinese companies, and help to generate innovative and sustainable growth. For example, we can now offer China what it needs to produce advanced materials domestically. From bulk petrochemicals and specialties to advanced composites which can substitute materials that emit a lot more carbon during the production phase such as steel, other metals and alloys, and concrete. We are at an advanced stage of developing futuristic technologies that convert crude oil directly into petrochemicals, including our flagship Catalytic Crude to Chemicals process being piloted with Tsinghua University in Beijing. And we are developing new, cutting-edge, non-metallic materials, whose production emits far less carbon, for use in sectors like construction, housing, and renewables.Equally important is the significant contribution Aramco can make to China’s cleaner economic growth. Our oil already has one of the lowest upstream carbon intensities in the world, which will help China with its lower carbon goals. Meanwhile, as new energy technologies slowly grow their contribution in the evolving energy mix, existing energy sources will continue to play a key role for decades to come. That is why improving their carbon footprint is now a key worldwide economic and environmental imperative. We therefore welcome Chinese expertise to help us drive down emissions in transportation and turn CO2 into useful products. We are already collaborating with the Tsinghua Automotive Strategy Research Institute on fuels and engine efficiency, and with leading Chinese energy and automotive companies. We can also supply bridge fuels that will help meet China’s growing need for clean energy, as we expand into international gas and LNG.  Most exciting of all, there are opportunities to collaborate in the development and use of clean future fuels such as hydrogen and other chemicals-type clean fuels. In fact, we recently exported the world’s first shipment of blue ammonia which will generate electricity with zero emissions. Ladies and Gentlemen, for decades, Aramco has been a reliable supplier of China’s energy needs, supporting the rapid growth and development we see today.   Our strengths and priorities have always been a natural fit. With Aramco’s even greater capabilities and China’s new strategic priorities, our commitment to China has never been stronger. The contribution we can make to meet China’s energy and chemicals materials needs has never been clearer.  And the opportunities to supply more energy with less carbon to China, in collaboration with our Chinese partners, have never been more compelling. Thank you, and xiè xiè.  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its financial results for the third quarter of 2020. These results highlight the Company’s financial and operational strength, despite market volatility and the impact of COVID-19 on the global economy. Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said:   “We saw early signs of a recovery in the third quarter due to improved economic activity, despite the headwinds facing global energy markets. Meanwhile, we maintained our commitment to shareholder value by declaring a dividend of $18.75 billion for the third quarter.  “Aramco’s integration with SABIC is proceeding as planned. Our resilience is supported by our unique scale, low upstream carbon intensity and low production costs. As the global economic and social landscape evolves, these strengths and our continued drive to lower GHG emissions mean we are well positioned to support the energy needs of the global economic recovery.  “We continue to adopt a disciplined and flexible approach to capital allocation in the face of market volatility. We are confident in Aramco’s ability to manage through these challenging times and deliver on our objectives.  “We are making progress on multiple fronts, including the world’s first blue ammonia shipment for zero-carbon power generation in Japan – further strengthening our focus on new and innovative solutions that contribute to the global energy transition.” Financial Highlights Aramco continues to demonstrate its strength and resilience across economic cycles, navigating challenging market conditions to record net income of $11.8 billion and free cash flow* of $12.4 billion in the third quarter of 2020.  Aramco declared a dividend of $18.75 billion for the quarter.  Q3 capital expenditure was $6.4 billion and Aramco continues to execute capital spending optimization and efficiency programs in response to the current business environment.  Operational Highlights 
Total hydrocarbon production for the first nine months of 2020 was 12.4 million barrels per day of oil equivalent, of which 9.2 million barrels per day was crude oil. The Company delivered crude and other products with 100% reliability in the third quarter of 2020, continuing its strong track record of supply reliability.  Aramco achieved a record historic single-day natural gas production of 10.7 bscfd on August 6, 2020 from both conventional and unconventional fields. Successful exploration activities resulted in two successful unconventional field discoveries in the third quarter, both in the northern part of the Kingdom; one field with both oil and gas reservoirs and another field with a gas reservoir. The Company’s Khurais oil facility was recognized by the World Economic Forum as a leader in the adoption and integration of cutting-edge technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR), including artificial intelligence and industrial robotics. Khurais became Aramco’s second facility to join WEF’s Global Lighthouse Network – a select group of just 54 facilities worldwide that have shown leadership in 4IR technologies.  The Downstream business continues to focus on enhancing integration and creating growth opportunities across the hydrocarbon value chain. Following the successful close of the SABIC transaction, the third quarter of 2020 marks the first full quarter in which SABIC’s financials are incorporated into Aramco’s Downstream results. Integration with SABIC continues to progress and drives forward the Downstream strategy of creating value through integration across the hydrocarbon value chain.  Aramco continued to demonstrate its focus on sustainability with the world’s first cargo of high-grade blue ammonia, which was shipped from Saudi Arabia to Japan for use in zero-carbon power generation. The process – a collaboration between Aramco, SABIC and the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan - involved the capturing of 50 tons of associated carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions for use in methanol production and enhanced oil recovery.  COVID-19 Update
Aramco remains committed to the safety of its people, establishing protocols to monitor and limit the spread of COVID-19 including medical support and monetary donations.  
The Company launched a “Device Donation Initiative” to help thousands of students’ access virtual schooling. It donated thousands of new devices for underprivileged students and encouraged employees to donate used computers to support the campaign. Further information on Aramco’s support efforts and response to COVID-19 can be found in more detail on a dedicated webpage here and an official press release here.  *Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comLadies and gentlemen, it’s a pleasure to join you today and address this distinguished gathering.  First, I would like to thank His Royal Highness, the Crown Prince, for everything he has done in support of AI in Saudi Arabia, as it is a key strategic driver of the knowledge-based economic diversification, outlined in Vision 2030.  I also want to thank the Saudi Data & AI Authority for putting this event together. Let me begin by briefly addressing the unprecedented evolution of data.  According to International Data Cooperation research, the global data generation will grow five times to reach 175ZB by 2025.  Nations who understand the power of transforming data into useful knowledge will enjoy a strong and prosperous future. In fact, there is a marathon underway, involving the world’s foremost economic powers, to take the lead in this area, which also attests to the foresight of the Kingdom’s leadership for assigning high priority to this strategic endeavor.  The Kingdom of Saudi Arabia was blessed with massive hydrocarbon resources, and Saudi Aramco, at an early stage, recognized the importance of leveraging advanced technologies to best manage these resources! Back in the 1980s, we built a flag ship reservoir simulator, called POWERS, to simulate our reservoirs at the highest resolution possible. This effort — undertaken with the aid of supercomputing — was unparalleled at that time.  Today we use its successor TeraPOWERS, a trillion cell model that incorporates AI to further increase hydrocarbon recovery, as well as discovery.   Similarly, in our surface operations, early deployment of Neural Networks and inferential models in refineries planted the seed for contemporary advancement in the use of AI and machine learning.AI Ecosystem
Saudi Aramco continues to progress its Digital Transformation Journey, where data and infrastructure are the cornerstones of our Digital Transformation.  In my view, the AI-ecosystem is built around three key pillars: Data
Our data storage capacity in Saudi Aramco will quadruple by 2025 to reach 400PB. This growth is a result of deploying more than 100 thousand IoT and smart devices, virtual reality solutions, cybersecurity operations, and data analytics.  We have invested in a world-class scalable data center, and plan to double the power capacity from 9MW to 17MW by 2030. Our computing infrastructure will increase by four times, to exceed 20,000 nodes. In addition, we already have adopted a multi-cloud strategy to augment our private cloud capabilities. As for connectivity capacity, we are expanding by 10 fold, from 10Gb/s to 100Gb/s, to accommodate the anticipated traffic growth as a result of immersive-experience technologies, and high-performance applications, such as AR/VR. Industrial Wi-Fi and 5G are being deployed in more than 10 operating facilities, to provide high speed wireless connectivity for IoT devices and wearables.  For hard to reach areas, we are exploring the use of low earth orbit satellites, to provide high-speed connectivity and internet access. These advancements and important investments in our data & infrastructure will be the key differentiator for a true scale-up of AI deployment. Technology
On the technology front, we recognize the need for creating an appropriate technology-enabled collaborative environment for our teams to continue with AI technology innovation. Accordingly, we have established the Fourth Industrial Revolution Center, inaugurated last year, to foster innovation and fast track AI-solution development and deployment. These centers are backed by more than 11 corporate cutting-edge digital platforms, such as BlockChain, BPM, and ChatBot. In addition, we have invested in more than 15 start-up companies focusing on AI and machine learning, locally and internationally. Capability building
Last but not least, is to focus on building capabilities and developing talent to take full advantage of digitalization.  We have already started several programs, including hosted master degrees with KAUST, Georgia Tech, and IE University in Spain. Now, I’ll share with you a few cases of the deployed AIAI for reliability
Under reliability, Aramco geoscientists use AI to analyze seismic data and pinpoint sweet spots, meaning exceptionally high potential opportunities that can minimize drilling risk.  When it comes to production, at Khurais for example, one of our enormous oil fields, we’ve deployed 40,000 sensors covering over 500 oil wells over a huge geographical area.  Our predictive models forecast well behavior, allowing us to take real-time action to control and optimize production.  I want to stress that the goal of deploying these technologies is to create economic value.  For example, we’ve been able to reduce overall power consumption by 18 percent, reduce maintenance costs by 30 percent, and cut inspection times by around 40 percent.  Khurais recently became our second facility, after ’Uthmaniyah Gas Plant in 2019, to receive the prestigious World Economic Forum (WEF) global lighthouse award, for being a leader in the adoption and integration of cutting-edge technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  Our teams have also developed an innovative approach to integrate different digital solutions, including “Digital Twin” and energy intensity, among other AI-based solutions.  This patented solution is branded as “Plant.Digital,” and we are working with several major software providers to commercialize the product.   When it comes to supply chain management, we have completed deployment of the e-marketplace, which employs advanced machine learning technologies to deliver fast and accurate supplier and commodity data, and provide detailed spend analysis.  Another interesting ongoing development is a machine learning algorithm to monitor material in transit, and help improve the on-time delivery of materials. AI for Safety 
When it comes to project safety, we worked with Foghorn, one of the AI venture capital startups we invested in through our venture capital subsidiary, SAEV; to develop a new Edge Analytics solution, to monitor, detect, and provide notifications on worker safety violations, using digital image processing.  The solution provides real-time and proactive alerts for safety compliance. AI for sustainability
Coming to sustainability that is among our highest priorities, we believe there is a key role for AI in this strategic domain.  I’m proud to highlight that we have the lowest upstream oil carbon intensity in the industry, achieving 10.1 Kg of CO2 per barrel of oil equivalent produced.  Coupled with an energy Intensity of 114.1 KBtu/Boe, we are among the best-in-class of major oil and gas producers. We’ve also developed an algorithm that predicts and minimizes the need for flaring.  By deploying this solution, our flaring intensity remains at less than 1% of our gas production, and the World Economic Forum has recognized this impressive example of environmental stewardship.  We’ve also developed a greenhouse gas emissions analytical solution that monitors emissions from over 2000 sources across our operating facilities.  These tools benchmark the performance of each facility across the company, to identify opportunities to cut flaring and reduce emissions.  We’re now looking into the use of Low Earth Orbit satellites, coupled with advanced data analytics, to monitor and further reduce our emissions. Cybersecurity
As we digitally transform our operations, we also continue to invest in upgrading our cybersecurity capabilities.  Accordingly, we have developed our internal Machine Learning Platform to amplify governance, rapidly identify risks, elevate protection, and accelerate detection capabilities.  For example, with the increased use of remote access (SSLVPN) due to COVID19, we developed a model that would learn the behavior of a trusted user/machine, and alert our Global Security Operations Center when the behavior deviates and becomes a threat. This ability helps us adjust our internal policies and behavior management programs, to educate our user base on safe teleworking practices. Conclusion
Ladies and gentleman, Saudi Aramco has both a progressive AI strategy and an active execution program leading to real results, while creating economic value.   I believe this technology will play a defining role in creating a more prosperous future, and I’m proud that Aramco and the Kingdom are at the forefront of the AI revolution. Thank youYour Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen: good morning, good afternoon, or good evening, wherever you are! Let me start by thanking my friend Ben van Beurden, not only for his kind words today, but for his continued support and friendship over the years.  Ben has made an enduring impact on the global energy industry, and it means a great deal to have him involved in the award presentation today. I also want to express my appreciation to Alex Schindelar and the team at Energy Intelligence for conducting the 2020 Forum under such extraordinary circumstances.  While we may be deprived of one another’s company, we still have the opportunity to hear from leading figures across the world of energy in this difficult moment for the global community. Most of all, though, I want to thank my peers and colleagues for this award. Everyone likes to be recognized for the job they have done.  But when it comes from those who know from personal experience just how complex, demanding, exciting, and ultimately rewarding your work can be that is truly humbling.   Today I am joining a group of 23 industry leaders who have been presented with this award—including my predecessors Abdallah Jum‘ah and His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih.  To have my name associated with all of them is indeed a tremendous honor. Of course, this is an occasion for reflection as well as celebration.  Looking back at my own career, I cannot help but reflect with pride on Aramco and its position in the energy industry and in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.   “Pride” often gets a bad rap, but the pride I am talking about is the kind of inner satisfaction you take in completing a task with skill.  It is the steady confidence that comes with overcoming difficulties and setbacks.  It is the profound sense of fulfilment you derive from the achievements of your loved ones.   That is the kind of pride I have in being part of Aramco. In fact, there is a deeply personal element in my pride in the company, because you see I am a second-generation Aramcon.My father worked for the company for 42 years, mostly in junior grade codes—real hands-on stuff on the frontline.  Up until his very last day on the job he reported for work at 7 AM as normal. But when he and his colleagues came home each day, they walked like lions because of the pride they took in their work, the recognition they received from the community, and the knowledge that they were part of something meaningful.   No matter what your job was or where you worked in Aramco, there was dignity in putting in a hard day’s work for a fair day’s pay, and people felt privileged to be able to put food on the table and provide for their parents and their children.  Seeing this, I resolved from an early age that I too would join Aramco. Looking back, it is clear that our sense of pride does not come from record production levels, or technical achievements, or operational milestones.  It comes from belonging to a community where people care for each other, care for their country, and care for the planet. Those great achievements are the result of a system and a set of strategies, but more importantly, they are the product of a deep-seated culture of responsibility.  From its earliest days, the company has always worked for all of its stakeholders, not just its shareholders, and has always been committed to what today we would recognize as ESG.  Contributing to the wider society while also delivering results has always been part our DNA. For example, entire communities sprang up along the route of the Tapline pipeline across northern Saudi Arabia, with people drawn by access to water and new trade opportunities.  The company did not have to battle malaria and trachoma or build public schools, but it did.  As a boy I attended just such a company-built school, and then went to a university established by the Ministry of Petroleum with the support of Aramco, right next door to the company’s headquarters here in Dhahran.   In fact, as a kid, Aramco was a window on a whole other world.  During the Eid holidays, my friends and I would pool our money, take a taxi to the Aramco camp in Dhahran, cut the fence and sneak into the open-air cinema where movies were being shown—which was an incredible experience!   I realize now that there are other, better gates into Aramco, and when it comes to movie admissions I don’t encourage others to follow in my footsteps!  But even then, the company was more to me than a place where my father worked: it was the gateway to a new quality of life and expanded opportunities. In short, people saw for themselves how the company was engaging with the society, changing lives, acting responsibly, demonstrating integrity and contributing to the Kingdom’s greater good.  Even those who had no personal connection to Aramco.  And ultimately that was what inspired us and, yes, made us proud. Of course, times have changed—as my children never stop reminding me.  Life is faster and more complex, and there are many other professional options and career paths available to young people now.  As the Kingdom and its economy have grown and developed, so Aramco must increasingly compete to attract and retain top talent—and that’s a good thing!   One of our challenges, frankly, is to ensure that the new generation gets every opportunity to experience the same deep sense of pride in addressing today’s challenges that we felt as young people. Thankfully, there is still a sense of excitement about Saudi Aramco’s future.  And in our part of the world, bright and enthusiastic young men and women remain keen to be part of the energy industry and our company.   That is because they see a world of opportunity based on merit, the potential for significant personal and professional development, and the means to contribute to the communities where they work.   Our people also recognize that we are not only delivering results today, but also building something for tomorrow, just as my father’s generation did and the generations before him.  Something that will endure, and whose benefits will be passed to future generations. A moment ago, I made a distinction between what you might call “empty” pride and “true” pride.  In my view, the difference can be seen most clearly in the effects of each. Empty pride creates overconfidence and breeds complacency.  It blinds us to our own faults and to the value of others.  It distances us from reality. But true pride is drawn from real life, real challenges, and real achievements.  It encourages and sustains us when times are tough.  Taking true pride in our own accomplishments allows us to better appreciate the success of others.  And far from creating a false sense of superiority, true pride grounds us, humbles us, and keeps us grateful. We saw that when tackling the immense changes associated with getting the company ready for our IPO last year, and this year’s acquisition of SABIC.   But the determination and resilience of our people were demonstrated most clearly during and after the attacks on Abqaiq and Khurais just over a year ago.  Nearly six million barrels of production capacity were knocked offline. Yet, incredibly, that was safely restored in just two weeks.  And ultimately that was because of our people who enabled us to rebound without breaking stride.   I said then, “You can attack our facilities, but as long as we have our people, we can overcome anything that is thrown at us.”  And I take great pride in making that statement again today. That is why I find it discouraging and even distressing that an industry that has done so much to enable prosperity for so many, so often finds itself on the defensive.    We can debate the reasons why.  It may be due to mis-perceptions of our sector and a lack of knowledge or balanced perspective. It may be because we have let others define us with their narrative. Or people may simply have taken our industry for granted—or more precisely, taken for granted what we make possible, and the benefits we provide.   But the reality of the situation is this: the energy industry continues to be the responsive and responsible motive force behind global economic activity as well as social development and progress.   We are tackling issues related to carbon emissions and climate change from a proactive, leadership position, including through industry-wide collaborations. We are harnessing technological advances and a spirit of innovation to usher in an even more reliable and more efficient energy sector.   Our companies are engaging with their various stakeholders around the world to better meet society’s rising expectations. And in recent months we have successfully overcome the operational challenges posed by COVID-19, continuing to provide vital energy and indispensable products while safeguarding our people and our communities. We should never grow complacent, ladies and gentlemen, particularly around the issue of climate change. We need to stand with our heads held high and take pride—true pride—in the petroleum industry’s many achievements. And we need to capitalize on this pride to better serve our people, secure our future, and protect our planet. We also need to demonstrate confidence in our future contributions. I have a strong belief that with technology and collaboration our industry can and will overcome the biggest of its future challenges—foremost among them, climate change.   Make no mistake, my friends and colleagues: the decisions we make and the steps we take now will have an impact for many years, indeed, many decades to come. That is a great responsibility, and given the right resources, the right vision, the right spirit, and above all the right people, it is a responsibility I know our industry is capable of shouldering. On a more personal note, I would like to close by noting that the love and support of my family have made all of my professional achievements possible, and they are why I am here talking to you today.   When I was a boy, my family supported my father and took pride in his achievements.  In turn and over time, he took pride in mine. Whenever I was promoted in the company, my father was proud.  “Inshallah, next you will become a supervisor,” he would say. “God willing, you will be a manager.” My mother, of course, was confident from the very beginning about where I would end up!   I am blessed that my children Hala, Leena, and Faisal, and especially my wife Rania, have been equally supportive over the years. Most of my career was spent away from them in the field and in remote areas.  Now, it is long hours, a lot of travel—when that was still a thing—and competing demands for my time and attention. The kids had no choice in the matter, to be honest, but my wife should have spotted the red flags a long time ago. As soon as we were back from our honeymoon, we moved into our house in Ras Tanura. I showed her where the commissary, the clinic, and the bus stop were, and then I was offshore for the next five days…   Six months after that we moved to Midland, Texas, for a development assignment with an American company. For the first two weeks we were living in a motel on the highway with a ditch in the middle for a swimming pool.  Once again, I got my wife settled in, and then I was off to the rig!   To be honest, I wasn’t sure why Aramco had sent me there, because most of the work involved mature or declining fields, not like those in the Kingdom. When I got back to Aramco, I asked my supervisor, a great man named Roger Busby, about this assignment. He told me I had been sent because he wanted me to see the future, and to understand first-hand the evolution of things. “If you ever become chief petroleum engineer one day,” he said, “this is the kind of thing you need to understand.”   Decades later, I did indeed become Aramco’s chief petroleum engineer. And while our oil and gas reserves remain abundant, Roger was right: that early experience proved invaluable, in part because it showed me the importance of taking the long view and always considering the future. In any case, although our time in Texas wasn’t always comfortable, those are still some of the finest and friendliest people I have ever met. Despite the hardships it was an exciting experience for Rania and I, because it was such a great opportunity as we began our life together. And ever since then, the excitement has never stopped—nor has her support, for which I am deeply grateful. Ultimately, my family is what has made my journey worthwhile. So this is their award even more than it is mine.   And that goes for the entire Aramco family. Not just the men and women around the world with whom I have the privilege of working today, but all those employees who came before—my father included—who built the foundations for what our company has become and what it will be in the future.  This is your reward, too. So ladies and gentlemen, I am enormously proud of my family and their achievements, and I am proud to be an Aramcon.  I am equally proud to be a part of this tremendous industry of ours that is still fueling the global economy and intensifying its efforts to both reduce emissions from our existing energy supplies and develop the new, cleaner energy sources of the future.   But I am also incredibly humbled by this award, and deeply appreciate your recognition today. Thank you.King Salman Energy Park (SPARK) has become the first industrial city in the world to receive Silver Level accreditation for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). The LEED program is an internationally-recognized green building certification system, which verifies that buildings are designed to improve performance across key sustainability metrics such as energy savings, water efficiency, CO2 emissions reduction, improved indoor environmental quality, stewardship of resources and sensitivity to their impact. The LEED certification strengthens SPARK’s ability to support future tenants and investors on their own journey towards LEED certification of their own facilities, as part of a fully-integrated energy community. It also affirms the city’s integrated sustainability practices, which are at the heart of the community’s planning. SPARK President & CEO, Saif S. Al Qahtani, said: “SPARK is distinguishing itself as a leading global energy, industrial and technology hub, cementing Saudi Arabia’s position as a progressive innovator in these fields on the international stage. The certification reaffirms our commitment to reducing the city’s carbon footprint. LEED communities are in high global demand, as they offer better rates of profitability, productivity and quality of workplace. Our goal is to create an ecosystem for energy-related companies to grow with minimum environmental impact, and we encourage other industrial cities to follow our lead.” Strategically located at the heart of Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province, SPARK’s vision is to be the primary gateway to the regional energy sector. Its technologically-advanced ecosystem offers investors unmatched supply-chain efficiency and has been designed to provide an ultramodern “plug and play” infrastructure. As well as targeting large corporations, SPARK also caters to small and medium sized enterprises and provides support through its SPARK SME Hub, creating a tailored microcosm for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). This allows streamlined and cost-effective operations near major workforce providers and close to highway and railway networks. At maturity, it will be home to over 300 industrial, technology and service facilities focused on meeting demand for energy goods and services across the entire value chain. LEED certification is a key step in ensuring that environmentally-sensitive techniques are consistently applied to the construction of SPARK across industrial, commercial and residential facilities. It is part of SPARK’s vision to be a proving ground for green tools and technologies designed to minimize the impact of activities conducted within the city, the most successful of which will serve as a blueprint for the oil and gas industry - as well as for businesses and homes across the country.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco and the Institute of Energy Economics, Japan (IEEJ), in partnership with SABIC, have successfully demonstrated the production and shipment of blue ammonia from Saudi Arabia to Japan with support from the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Forty tons of high-grade blue ammonia have already been dispatched to Japan for use in zero-carbon power generation.
 The announcement comes amid growing appreciation of the role hydrogen will play in the global energy system. Ammonia, a compound consisting of three parts hydrogen and one part nitrogen, can contribute to addressing the challenge of meeting the world’s growing energy needs in a reliable, affordable and sustainable manner.
 The Saudi-Japan blue ammonia supply network demonstration spanned the full value chain; including the conversion of hydrocarbons to hydrogen and then to ammonia, as well as the capture of associated carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions.
 It overcame challenges associated with the shipping of blue ammonia to Japan for use in power plants, with 30 tons of CO2 captured during the process designated for use in methanol production at SABIC’s Ibn-Sina facility and another 20 tons of captured CO2 being used for Enhanced Oil Recovery at Aramco’s Uthmaniyah field.
 This milestone highlights one of several pathways within the concept of a global Circular Carbon Economy, a framework in which CO2 emissions are reduced, removed, recycled and reused - as opposed to being released into the atmosphere. “The use of hydrogen is expected to grow in the global energy system, and this world’s first demonstration represents an exciting opportunity for Aramco to showcase the potential of hydrocarbons as a reliable and affordable source of low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia. This milestone also highlights a successful transnational, multi-industry partnership between Saudi Arabia and Japan. Multinational partnerships are key in realizing the Circular Carbon Economy, championed by the Saudi Arabian G20 Presidency. Aramco continues to work with various partners around the world, finding solutions through the deployment of breakthrough technologies to produce low-carbon energy and address the global climate challenge.” “Blue ammonia is critical to Japan’s zero carbon emission ambitions to sustain the balance between the environment and the economy. About 10% of power in Japan can be generated by 30 million tons of blue ammonia. We can start with co-firing blue ammonia in existing power stations, eventually transitioning to single firing with 100% blue ammonia. There are nations such as Japan which cannot necessarily utilize Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) or EOR due to their geological conditions. The carbon neutral blue ammonia/hydrogen will help overcome this regional disadvantage.” “At SABIC, we can economically leverage our existing infrastructure for hydrogen and ammonia production with CO2 capture. Our experience in the full supply chain along with integrated petrochemicals facilities will play an important role in providing blue ammonia to the world.” Ammonia contains approximately 18% hydrogen by weight and is already a widely traded chemical on the world stage. It releases zero CO2 emissions when combusted in a thermal power plant and has the potential to make a significant contribution to an affordable and reliable low-carbon energy future. SABIC and Mitsubishi Corporation, which is represented on the IEEJ study team involved in the project, are overseeing the transport logistics in partnership with JGC Corporation, Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Engineering, Ltd., Mitsubishi Shipbuilding Co., Ltd. and UBE Industries, Ltd.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe World Economic Forum (WEF) has recognized Aramco’s Khurais oil facility as a leader in the adoption and integration of cutting-edge technologies of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (4IR). Khurais is the company’s second facility, after Uthmaniyah Gas Plant, to be included in WEF’s prestigious Global Lighthouse Network.  Khurais was one of 10 facilities added to the network this year, taking the total number to 54 worldwide. Uthmaniyah Gas Plant was included in 2019, meaning Aramco is one of only nine companies represented in the WEF network by more than one facility - and the only major energy company in the Lighthouse network. For the full WEF announcement, click here. Additional information on Aramco’s Digital Transformation Program and the 4IR Center can be found in more detail on a dedicated webpage here. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comIndustrial work wear has historically been designed around male body frames, due to the overwhelming demographic associated with this type of work up until now. 
With the number of women working in operational roles steadily increasing, Aramco recently took a fresh look at its range of personal protective equipment (PPE) with a view to changing this. “Aramco’s priority has always been the protection of its people, and when the topic of gender and comfort was brought forward, we immediately set about addressing this,” says Loss Prevention Department (LPD) manager Ghassan Abulfaraj.  “A one-size-fits-all approach to PPE can undermine a safety program,” said Abulfaraj. “PPE is essential for the protection of our employees, and an important part of this is ensuring that equipment is not only compliant from a safety perspective, but also comfortable to wear.”
 
Depending on their role, operational employees and contractors wear a range of PPE, including flame resistant clothing, boots, gloves, hard hats, safety glasses, and hearing protection.
 With a goal of ensuring the safety and comfort of female personnel, Aramco initiated a project to enhance the company’s line of flame resistant clothing (FRC), including specific designs for the female workforce.
 Aniela Zarzar Torano and Fatimah Barnawi, both LP engineers who worked as leads on the project, note that effective female PPE is more than simply a smaller or larger size of the male designs, especially in the Middle Eastern region.
 “A female body frame is often shaped differently and generally smaller than a male frame. Having poorly fitting safety clothing can cause risks such as reduced agility, catching on equipment, and tripping,” said Zarzar Torano.  Barnawi adds: “Another unique aspect to this project — besides that of sizing and safety — was cultural requirements. We needed to work on a design that not only covered the areas of safety and comfort, but also one that met our female employees’ requirements for modesty.”  It was this recognition that led to a partnership with DuPont, one of the world’s leading companies in terms of science and innovation, to customize an FRC line that improved comfort and met cultural requirements, all while ensuring that all safety guidelines were maintained.  
Over a period of 18 months, LPD and Du Pont worked tirelessly on a number of design concepts that not only looked to improve design and comfort from a safety perspective, but also ensure that cultural requirements were met.
 Speaking to the practical aspects of a project such as this, Zarzar Torano adds: “This clothing is the final line of defense that we have in the event of a fire. As such, we had to work through numerous designs, tests and practical trials to ensure that what we were signing off on was absolutely of the highest quality.”
 Abulfaraj notes that what made this project unique is that it provided an opportunity to not only accommodate the needs of Saudi Aramco’s female workforce, but also lead the way in innovation to further improve FRC safety features for female employees across the industry.
 “This wasn’t simply a project where we looked to alter the size of clothing; that could be done by anyone,” Abulfaraj says. “We wanted to use this opportunity to challenge the status quo, and to ask ourselves, “How can we do this better?”  The result was a new line of female FRC, inclusive of shirts and hijabs, which meets the requirements of safety, culture and comfort for the wearer. It includes:
 
Work uniforms provide employees with a feeling of belonging and sense of identity, and this project has underlined such an ethos. With many more females taking up roles in traditionally male-dominated industries, the need for adaptation and innovation is increasing.
 Aramco’s priority will always be the safety of its people, but it also believes that an inclusive and respectful workplace is essential, and it will do everything in its power to ensure that its deliver on both of these fronts.
 While our core safety value ensures that any operational decision will always be made to ensure the safety of employees and contractors, the launch of this new line of protective clothing is indicative of where the industry — and indeed the company - is headed.
“Across Aramco’s multiple operations – both in Kingdom and around the world — we want all of our people to feel welcome, and that they belong,” says Aali M. Al Zahrani, vice president of Safety and Industrial Security.The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced the establishment of an integrated Corporate Development organization to optimize the Company's portfolio. Corporate Development is mandated to create value, assess existing assets and secure greater access to growth markets and technologies through portfolio optimization and strategic alignment. The organization will support rapid and effective decision-making on the Company’s portfolio and corporate development activities, with the goal of strengthening the Company’s resilience, agility and ability to respond to changing market dynamics.   The organization will be led by Senior Vice President Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi, reporting directly to the President & CEO, and will become operational starting September 13, 2020. This constitutes a refinement of Aramco’s existing corporate development model and does not represent a fundamental organizational change, and will support the Company’s efforts to identify the best opportunities and successfully grow and optimize its business.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comNet income: $6.6 billion (Q2) / $23.2 billion (H1) Cash flow from operating activities: $12.3 billion (Q2) / $34.8 billion (H1) Free cash flow*: $6.1 billion (Q2) / $21.1 billion (H1) Q1 dividend of $18.75 billion paid in the second quarter; Q2 dividends of $18.75 billion to be paid in the third quarter  Completion of SABIC transaction is a milestone for Downstream growth strategy  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its results for the second quarter and first half of 2020, highlighting the Company’s financial and operational resilience, and commitment to shareholders despite challenging market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Commenting on the results, Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: 

“Despite COVID-19 bringing the world to a standstill, Aramco kept going. We have proven our financial resilience and operational reliability, setting a record in our business operations, while at the same time taking steps to ensure the health and safety of our people. “Strong headwinds from reduced demand and lower oil prices are reflected in our second quarter results. Yet we delivered solid earnings because of our low production costs, unique scale, agile workforce, and unrivalled financial and operational strength. This helped us deliver on our plan to maintain a second quarter dividend of $18.75 billion to be paid in the third quarter.   “We will continue to pursue our long-term growth and diversification strategy to capture unrealized and additional value from every hydrocarbon molecule we produce – driving global commerce and enhancing people’s lives. The completion of our historic acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC is yet more evidence of that forward momentum and a testament to our healthy financial position. “We are seeing a partial recovery in the energy market as countries around the world take steps to ease restrictions and reboot their economies. Meanwhile, we continue to place people’s safety first and have adapted to the new normal, implementing wide-ranging precautions to limit the spread of COVID-19 wherever we operate. “We are determined to emerge from the pandemic stronger and will continue making progress on our long-term strategic journey, through ongoing investments in our business – which has one of the lowest upstream carbon footprints in the world.” Financial Highlights
Despite continued global economic disruption and challenges facing the energy sector, Aramco continued to deliver on its commitment to shareholders by declaring a dividend of $18.75 billion for the second quarter, compared to $13.4 billion for the second quarter of 2019.  Aramco navigated challenging market conditions to record net income of $6.6 billion for the second quarter and $23.2 billion for the first half of 2020, respectively, compared to $24.7 billion and $46.9 billion in the corresponding periods of 2019. This demonstrates Aramco’s agility, strength and resilience across market cycles. Free cash flow* was $6.1 billion in the second quarter and $21.1 billion for the first half of 2020, respectively, compared to $20.6 billion and $38.0 billion for the same periods in 2019.  The gearing ratio* was 20.1% at the end of June, mainly reflecting deferred consideration for the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) acquisition and the consolidation of SABIC’s net debt onto Aramco’s balance sheet. Capital expenditure was $6.2 billion in the second quarter and $13.6 billion for the first half of 2020. Aramco continues to implement its capital spending optimization and efficiency program, and expects capital expenditure to be at the lower end of the $25 billion to $30 billion range for 2020.  Operational Highlights 
The COVID-19 pandemic has spread rapidly throughout the world, resulting in substantial reductions in consumer and business activity and significantly reduced demand for crude oil, natural gas and petroleum products.  Under these challenging market conditions, Aramco continued its strong track record of reliable supply, achieving 99.8% reliability in the delivery of crude oil and other products in the second quarter of 2020. The Company demonstrated reliable upstream performance with total hydrocarbon production of 12.7 million barrels per day of oil equivalent in the second quarter of 2020.  Aramco achieved a historic highest single day crude oil production of 12.1 million barrels on April 2, 2020.  To meet future global and domestic energy demand, Aramco continues to expand its gas business. In line with this strategy, the Fadhili Gas Plant reached its full production capacity of 2.5 billion standard cubic feet per day during the second quarter, after successfully completing its commissioning activities.  The Downstream business continues to deliver on its long-term strategy of strategic integration and diversification.  In June 2020, Aramco successfully completed the acquisition of a 70% stake in SABIC, for $69.1 billion. SABIC is a world-class, diversified petrochemicals company with complementary chemicals capabilities. The acquisition enhances Aramco’s existing Downstream portfolio, accelerates its petrochemicals growth, increases existing chemicals volumes and expands its international reach. In July 2020, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) member companies announced a target to reduce the average carbon intensity of their aggregated upstream oil and gas operations to between 20 kg and 21 kg of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent (CO2e/boe) by 2025, from a collective baseline of 23 kg CO2e/boe in 2017. Aramco, an OGCI member, achieved an upstream carbon intensity of 10.4 kg CO2e/boe in 2019. The Company’s Greenhouse Gas emissions were verified by an independent third party. COVID-19 Update
Throughout the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco has remained committed to the safety of its people, establishing protocols to monitor and limit the spread of COVID-19.  The Company has helped its people and communities around the world confront the virus through initiatives such as employee donation programs, medical support services and monetary contributions. Working with communities in each of its geographies, Aramco and its subsidiaries have provided much-needed equipment to hospitals, such as ventilators, high-efficiency air purifiers and personal protective equipment for frontline healthcare professionals. Aramco has extended financial support to aid agencies around the world to help combat the spread of COVID-19. Aramco Overseas Company and Aramco’s regional affiliates have made donations of $6.7 million to organizations in the United States, Asia and Europe to support emergency workers and help protect vulnerable groups. This includes financial support to multiple food banks and to advance trials of treatments for COVID-19 patients.  In Saudi Arabia, Aramco has contributed over $50 million to the Health Endowment Fund of the Ministry of Health to support efforts to combat COVID-19. It also matched an amount raised by Aramco employees through staff donations, with a total of $3.5 million going towards the distribution of welfare supplies to more than 20,000 deserving households, including orphans and widows, across the Kingdom.   Despite the virus’s impact on demand, the Company continues to place great importance on maintaining its industry-leading capabilities and operations, backed by its world-class supply chain, to ensure its customers’ requirements are met.   Additional information on Aramco’s support efforts and response to COVID-19 can be found in more detail on a dedicated webpage here and an official press release here.  *Please refer to www.aramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures  Aramco will discuss its half-year financial results for 2020 in a webcast on August 10, 2020 at 3.30pm KSA / 1.30pm BST / 8.30am EST. The webcast will be available at www.saudiaramco.com/investors.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comReorganization designed to enhance Aramco’s competitiveness and support its vision to be the world’s preeminent integrated energy and chemicals company. The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”)  today announced the reorganization of its Downstream business to support and enhance integration across the hydrocarbon value chain and better position the Company to drive financial performance, value creation and global growth. The Company’s Downstream operating model will include four commercial business units: Fuels (includes Refining, Trading, Retail and Lubes); Chemicals; Power; and Pipelines, Distribution & Terminals. These business units will be supported by three corporate functions: Manufacturing, Strategy & Marketing and Affiliates Affairs.

This reorganization is designed to enhance the effectiveness and efficiency of Aramco's existing Downstream assets, but does not represent a fundamental change in the overall business structure. Abdulaziz M. Al Gudaimi, Senior Vice President of Aramco Downstream, said: “I am excited that we are launching a new operating model that we believe will help streamline our operations and reinforce our position as a major global energy and petrochemicals player. This reorganization is yet another step in Aramco’s strategy to develop a global integrated Downstream business that enhances our competitiveness by maximizing our value capture across the hydrocarbon value chain.”
 The reorganization, which is expected to be in place by the end of the year, further strengthens Aramco’s industry leadership in safety, sustainability, efficiency and reliability.

Aramco has a large, strategically integrated global Downstream business that leverages the Company’s competitive Upstream position. The Company’s Downstream strategy focuses on creating growth opportunities across the hydrocarbon chain in order to expand the Company’s sources of earnings, providing resilience to oil price volatility and capitalizing on rising demand for petrochemical products.
Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comGood morning.  I wish we could be together in person. But given COVID-19, meeting virtually is the next best thing!  Let me start by congratulating you for being selected for the YLAB Academy.   It’s hard to believe, but YLAB will mark its 10th anniversary next year. I remember early on there was a strong belief that YLAB was needed in order to bring the youth perspective into the Accelerated Transformation Program and into our decision-making in general. However, there were also some early doubts – in particular around the sustainability of YLAB. In hindsight, YLAB has proven to be successful. It has been a catalyst for transformation and change as well as a way to find and nurture talented young men and women. Your group of 60 is from a diverse cross-section of the company, representing many different areas and careers. But all of you have one thing in common – you are all potential leaders.  Now, Aramco has more than 40,000 employees in the age group that could apply to be part of the YLAB. The very fact that you have been selected is proof of your potential. That said, before we move to the Q and A, I’d like to briefly talk about the unprecedented times we are facing today. When I last spoke to YLAB in January, one of the things I stressed was that we must be prepared to overcome challenges – “not only the ones we can anticipate, but those we cannot predict.” I didn’t expect these words to become so real, so quickly. 2020, so far has been a challenge no one could have predicted.COVID-19 has forced us to do things differently, from the way we interact with our families and friends – to the way we work. Because of COVID, we are doing more work virtually – which is something all of you are good at.  The impact of COVID has been unforgiving for many businesses which had to shut down. Some had to re-invent themselves in quick time, and sadly many people lost their jobs. And many of these jobs won’t return – they are permanently lost, unfortunately!    Consequently, I am sure you know the effect on oil prices and demand. As a company, Aramco has also been challenged. But our unique low-cost base and the resilience of our talented workforce are significant differentiators that will enable us to withstand the headwinds. 
 
And while there has been a lot of uncertainty this year, one thing has been clear – the wellbeing of our workforce has proven to be only as strong as our actions individually.  We are each a link in a chain that is only as strong as its weakest link.  This is true beyond the COVID pandemic.  It’s true for the health of our climate. Indeed, climate change is the single biggest challenge we face going forward as an organization – and as individual citizens of this planet. Now, for the record, I am among those who firmly believe that oil and gas will still be needed and will be around for a long time.  Accordingly, I believe we must find ways to further reduce the environmental impact of billions of people who use our products to live, to move, to survive and to thrive. Against this backdrop, our strategy is straightforward.  We intend to monetize our resources and embrace technology and innovation in order to minimize greenhouse gas emissions … making oil and gas cleaner. And we believe that IR4 technologies and digital transformation will help us to further lower our carbon foot print and achieve a higher level of sustainability for oil and gas. In addition, we also face another challenge: COVID-19. With COVID, we are in a situation that challenges every company, every community and every family.  But I believe the mission is clear.   Right now, we must work together to position Aramco not only to weather the current downturn, but to emerge in a better position and greater strength. That means we must sharpen our focus on productivity, cost efficiency and operational excellence. And every one of us must perform at our very best.  Now, one of the things I have been proud of this year is that, in spite of the difficult circumstances, much has also been accomplished. Our people have demonstrated extraordinary courage when confronted with uncertainty. Simply put, we continued to “redefine resilience” to meet the challenges at hand. Yes, adversity is an obstacle. But it’s also a catalyst. So, how does this relate to your role with YLAB? One of my favorite memories since we created YLAB nearly a decade ago, was the words of a young participant who said, “YLAB stretches you so that you can never return to your original shape!”  I think this is a great way of putting it!   And if you move forward with the cohort, I hope you welcome the continued stretching. Yesterday’s storytelling workshop is a perfect example. The day was designed to enhance your storytelling ability so you can better engage, influence, motivate, and build relationships with others.  This Academy is designed to build your leadership skills. And I know limited capacity means only a handful of you will be selected for this cohort. I know there will be disappointment. But if you are not selected, I want you to realize one thing… This is not the end. Rather, this is a beginning. This is an opportunity to turn a short-term disappointment into a long-term catalyst for personal and professional growth … with a renewed focus on continuing to build your leadership skills. This is an opportunity to return to your “day job” and become an ambassador for the kind of transformation that you want to see.  Ultimately, this is an opportunity to get connected with a very special group of peers – as together, you represent the future. Now, for those of you who make the cut, I have two requests. Yes, an assignment already! First, I want you to find ways to engage past alumni as well as all the YLAB Academy participants in this group today.  Second, I want those of you in this next cohort to work with the current YLAB cohort to re-invent YLAB for the next decade.  A lot has changed since YLAB was conceived. In the world, in our industry, and at Aramco. As such, we must ask ourselves: how can YLAB make even more of an impact including in areas like tackling climate change for example?   What changes should be introduced? How should YLAB evolve?  These are my questions for the cohort.  And I want you to answer these questions before the end of this year – so when we celebrate the 10-year anniversary next year, we can do so by launching YLAB 2.0. On that note, thank you for listening.Combines strengths and interests of two global companies to accelerate Aramco’s downstream strategy and leverage petrochemicals growth opportunities. Positions Aramco as one of the major global petrochemicals players. Aramco today announced the successful completion of its share acquisition of a 70% stake in Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) from the Public Investment Fund (PIF), the sovereign wealth fund of Saudi Arabia, for a total purchase price of SAR 259.125 billion (US$ 69.1 billion), equating to SAR 123.39 price per share. The completion of the transaction enhances Aramco’s presence in the global petrochemicals industry, a sector expected to record the fastest growth in oil demand in the years ahead. Combined, in 2019 Aramco and SABIC recorded petrochemicals production volume of nearly 90 million tonnes, including agri-nutrient and specialty products. The acquisition of the SABIC stake is consistent with Aramco’s long-term Downstream strategy to grow its integrated refining and petrochemicals capacity and create value from integration across the hydrocarbon chain. It specifically enhances Aramco’s chemicals strategy by transforming Aramco into one of the major global petrochemicals players; integrating upstream production with SABIC feedstock; expanding capabilities in procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, marketing and sales; complementing geographic presence, projects and partners; and increasing the resilience of cash flow generation with synergistic opportunities. SABIC expects also to benefit from Aramco’s Downstream chemicals feedstock production, and ability to invest in and execute major growth projects at a very large scale. H.E. Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan, Governor, Public Investment Fund (PIF) said: “This is a significant milestone for three of Saudi Arabia’s most important entities. It provides capital for PIF’s long-term investment strategy as it drives the economic transformation and growth of Saudi Arabia, further benefitting the people of our country; it supports Aramco’s continued growth in Downstream and enhances its international footprint; and, it provides SABIC a new strategic energy industry focused shareholder with the ability to support growth projects.” Amin Nasser, President & CEO, Aramco said: “We are excited to complete this transaction. It is a significant leap forward which accelerates Aramco’s Downstream strategy and transforms our company into one of the major global petrochemicals players. The strategic integration of our Upstream production and Downstream chemicals feedstock production with SABIC’s chemicals platform is expected to create opportunities for selective integration synergies that support growth and add value for shareholders.”  “Despite the COVID-19 pandemic forcing many companies to rethink or revise their long term strategies, our long-term focus, financial strength and resilience have enabled us to complete this historic deal. It marks the beginning of a new chapter in the history of both companies and is an important marker in delivering our long term Downstream strategy.” Abdulaziz Al-Gudaimi, Senior Vice President of Downstream, Aramco said: “The completion of this transaction marks an important step in Aramco’s continuous drive to develop a global integrated Downstream business designed to add value across the hydrocarbon chain. As SABIC joins the Aramco family of companies, we expect to create synergies and add value through integration in procurement, supply chain, manufacturing, marketing and sales.” Yousef A. Al-Benyan, Vice Chairman and CEO, SABIC said: “SABIC’s relationship with PIF and Aramco goes back to our inception in 1976. SABIC is grateful to His Excellency Yasir Al-Rumayyan for the strong and constant support we have received from both him and PIF. The global scale and presence of SABIC, one of the world’s most significant diversified chemicals companies, brings significant enhancements to Aramco. As the chemicals growth platform, SABIC expects to benefit from the additional scale, technology, investment potential, and growth opportunities Aramco will bring in integrated energy and chemicals production. We look forward to contributing to global chemicals growth, while continuing to support Saudi Vision 2030.” As the new majority shareholder of SABIC, Aramco has the ability to elect the majority of SABIC’s directors. The SABIC board will ensure strategic alignment, and oversee further creation of value for SABIC and all of its shareholders as SABIC becomes an important member of the Aramco group. A Corporate Collaboration and Integration Committee has also been established to make recommendations on collaboration and integration matters expected to create value for SABIC in particular and for the Aramco group as a whole. This committee will be chaired by the SABIC CEO and will include two other members from SABIC and three members from Aramco.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comIn-line with Saudi Aramco’s Digital Transformation Program – which capitalizes on innovative Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies to deliver energy more sustainably and efficiently – Aramco Asia recently deployed a “smart helmet.”  Operating on artificial intelligence, the helmet remotely monitors equipment and material fabrication activities, helping to mitigate the risk of COVID-19 transmission. The technology behind the smart helmet, an Android tablet class wearable computer, is a hands-free device attached to a regular industrial helmet. It uses voice recognition software and allows for numerous functions such as easy document and screen sharing, high resolution image capturing, video recording, and real-time augmented reality mark-up for remote guidance. The helmet also enables multiple people to remotely run multiple support sessions at one time. “Digital transformation is driving change in how we manage our business in Aramco Asia, and it supports our stakeholders through enhanced agility and innovative solutions — especially in times of crises,” said Anwar A. Al-Hejazi, Aramco Asia president. “Aramco Asia will continue to explore and adopt innovative technologies that can add value to our operations.” Highlighting the value of such technologies, Aramco Asia-Korea representative director Fahad A. Al-Sahali said: “This technology brings about many benefits that enable us to reliably and safely sustain our operations, by increasing on-the-spot audits to monitor materials fabrication activities and expediting related urgent assessment processes. Identifying suitable technologies that complement our processes at an early stage enhances our business continuity measures.”To ensure business continuity during the current COVID-19 pandemic, Aramco Asia engineers in South Korea have utilized the smart helmet technology to remotely evaluate a new potential manufacturer located in Ulsan (approximately 350 km from Seoul) that produces straight seam pipes.  A group of technical and inspection assessors from Saudi Aramco Consulting Services in Dhahran and Aramco Asia Engineering and Technical Services in Seoul collaborated and interacted remotely with manufacturer representatives through live streaming. This unique solution — carried out to support an urgent request to assess the manufacturer’s performance and equipment operation conditions — was remarkably efficient. The technology has also been utilized to supervise inspection activities and mechanical testing for the company’s ongoing critical purchase orders for projects such as the Marjan Increment Program. This solution has helped to maintain human safety requirements, deliver proper inspection services, and support the company’s capital project’s schedules. The inspection results were satisfactory and supportive of the company strategy to promote digital transformation for business functions. Aramco Asia will continue using the technology to ensure product integrity and business efficiency.The unprecedented challenges the world is facing force us all to sharpen our focus on what really matters. Our immediate priority, as CEOs, is to do everything we can so that our people and communities are safe and capable of confronting the pandemic effectively. We will work to help the world recover from the economic shock of this crisis that has undoubtedly hit some more than others yet impacts us all. We have heard concerns that this crisis may push oil and gas companies – and governments around the world – to delay climate action. The reality is that rather than shifting our priorities, the Covid-19 crisis is further crystallizing our focus on what is essential: health, safety and protection of the environment while providing the energy and vital products that society needs to support economic recovery. OGCI members’shared mission since our formation in 2014 is to act collectively in combating the climate challenge and to accelerate the global response to the risk of climate change even as we support economic growth. We are dedicated within OGCI and in our own companies to maintaining this mission. Climate change is a reality facing us all that requires a consistent and dedicated approach. The most successful responses to this pandemic around the world reveal how collaboration and solidarity are essential when facing global issues. This serves to reinforce the value of our collective effort to address the climate challenge through the collaboration among governments, businesses, civil society and the broader population. Advances in technology, more effective policy and infrastructure investments will all be needed to address the scale of the climate challenge. For its part, OGCI and its member companies reiterate our continued efforts and pledge to: With the whole world cooperating – one region, one country, one community after another – to contain the pandemic, we have seen the importance of innovation, collaboration and courage to progress towards a healthier future for all. As all eyes look for the most effective approaches to emerge from this crisis, you can count on us to do our part. We will continue to work with others to support economic recovery and to transition to a healthier, lower-carbon future. CLICK TO DOWNLOAD A COPY OF THE LETTER (PDF, 430KB)Saudi Aramco and Total announced today the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation (JXTG), a Japanese oil and gas and chemical company and the world’s leading Ethylidene Norbornene (ENB) producer. Under the MoU, JXTG plans to invest in a 23,000 tons per year state-of-the-art ENB plant, that will use feedstock from the Amiral complex in Jubail, located on Saudi Arabia’s eastern coast. JXTG has launched the feasibility study of the ENB plant in April 2020. ENB is an important component in the manufacture of Ethylene Propylene Diene Monomer (EPDM), an advanced heat and weather resistant synthetic rubber used primarily in the automotive and construction industries. Demand for ENB has been increasing strongly alongside growth in the automotive production sector.  This specialty chemical project will be located in the new value park of the large-scale chemical complex of Amiral. It will give JXTG access to a reliable supply of feedstock and energy, with large infrastructure, to better serve customers directly in the Middle East and in other regions. Fayez Al-Sharef, Saudi Aramco’s Director, Amiral Program, said, “We are pleased to be working with JXTG on this project.  This MOU is confirmation of our commitment to the Amiral project. JXTG, through their leading-edge technology, will be able to produce ENB for the first time in the Middle East region. It marks yet another milestone in the development of the Saudi chemical industry – a key element of achieving the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 Plan.”  Jean-Jacques Mosconi, Senior Vice President of Total for the Amiral project added, “The addition of JXTG and their ENB project to the growing list of investors in the value park of Amiral is great news. The participation of JXTG will add significant strength and value to the Amiral project and is another demonstration of our successful long-standing partnership with Saudi Aramco”. Announced in April 2018, the world-class complex is a joint venture between Saudi Aramco (62.5%) and Total (37.5%) and will be located next to the SATORP refinery, in order to fully exploit operational synergies. It will comprise a mixed-feed cracker – the first in the Gulf region to be integrated with a refinery – with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year of ethylene and related high-added-value chemical units and is scheduled to start-up in 2025.  The project will provide feedstock to other chemical and specialty chemical plants that will be located in the value park of the Amiral complex, in the same industrial area in Jubail. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comFirst quarter net income: $16.7 billion  First quarter free cash flow*: $15.0 billion  Gearing* ratio of -4.9% reflects further strengthening of balance sheet  Dividends of $13.4 billion paid in the first quarter, in respect of Q4 2019 Dividends of $18.75 billion to be paid in the second quarter, for Q1 2020  Low upstream costs and sustaining capital provide significant flexibility  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its financial results for the first quarter of 2020, demonstrating financial and operational strength despite a challenging macro environment and lower energy demand caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. “The COVID-19 crisis is unlike anything the world has experienced in recent history and we are adapting to a highly complex and rapidly changing business environment. Aramco has demonstrated resilience during economic cycles and has an unparalleled position due to a strong balance sheet and low-cost structure.  “We have delivered solid earnings with robust free cash flow, despite weak energy demand and low oil prices. We remain committed to the safety of our people while delivering on our long-term value creation strategy for all of our shareholders.  “During the first quarter, we took steps to further optimize our planned 2020 capital spending and identified opportunities to improve operational productivity.  “We retain significant flexibility to adjust expenditures and have considerable experience in managing the business through times of adversity. This resilience will enable us to continue delivering on our commitments to our shareholders.  “Looking ahead to the remainder of 2020, we expect the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on global energy demand and oil prices to weigh on our earnings. We continue to reinforce the business during this period by reducing our capex and driving operational excellence. Longer term we remain confident that demand for energy will rebound as global economies recover.”  Net income remained robust at $16.7 billion for the first quarter, despite lower crude oil prices, as well as declining refining and chemicals margins and inventory re-measurement losses.  Cash flow from operating activities was strong at $22.4 billion in the first quarter, compared to $24.5 billion in the same period of 2019. The impact of declining crude oil prices and refining and chemicals margins was partially offset by favorable movements in working capital.  Free cash flow* was robust at $15.0 billion in the first quarter, compared to $17.4 billion in the same period last year.  Our balance sheet remains strong and gearing* ratio decreased from -0.2% on December 31, 2019 to -4.9% on March 31, 2020.  Total dividends of $13.4 billion were paid in the first quarter, in respect of the fourth quarter of 2019. Dividends of $18.75 billion for the first quarter of 2020 are the highest of any listed company worldwide and will be paid in the second quarter.  First quarter capital expenditures were $7.4 billion, compared to $7.2 billion for the same period in 2019. In light of market conditions and recent commodity price volatility, the Company continues to expect capital spending for 2020 to be between $25 billion and $30 billion. Capital expenditures for 2021 and beyond remain under review.  Under challenging market conditions, Aramco maintained its pre-eminence in oil and gas production.  Aramco, through its wholly owned subsidiary Aramco Gulf Operations Company Ltd. (AGOC), resumed operations at Al-Khafji Joint Operations (KJO). AGOC operates in the offshore partitioned territory between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the State of Kuwait, with a 50% ownership in KJO.  Aramco Trading Company signed an agreement to offtake Aramco Gulf Operations Company’s full share of crude oil production following the restart of KJO.  During the first quarter, the Fadhili Gas Plant increased its processing capacity from 1.5 billion standard cubic feet per day (bscfd) at year-end 2019 to reach 2.0 bscfd during the first quarter of 2020. Progress remains on track and the plant is expected to reach full capacity of 2.5 bscfd this year.  Despite a challenging market environment, the downstream business is keeping pace with its long-term strategy to capture value across the hydrocarbon value chain through further strategic integration and diversification of its operations.  In response to COVID-19, the Company has implemented a series of measures to protect its people, its communities and its operations to supply the world with the energy it needs.  The Company has prioritized the safety, health and wellbeing of its employees, implementing measures to reduce the risk of COVID-19 spread and mitigate the virus’s impact. These measures include remote working for many employees, active prevention programs, detailed contingency plans and leading medical support services from Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare to minimize risk of infection and ensure the best possible care.  Actions have also been taken to ensure all sites remain operational. Measures include the formation of dedicated taskforces to prevent supply chain disruption and to ensure the well-being of contractors and staff. The Company continues to utilize inbuilt systems for managing global crises to continue delivering energy to customers.  In times of crisis, community support is paramount. The Company has established campaigns to help fight the spread of COVID-19 and provide humanitarian assistance to those who need it most. For example, Aramco supported the Kingdom’s healthcare sector by contributing SAR200 million for the supply of ventilators, air purification devices and Personal Protective Equipment for healthcare practitioners and their patients. The Company has also provided support to communities through its overseas offices, including those in the US, Europe and Asia.  Additional information on Aramco’s response to COVID-19 can be found in more detail on a dedicated webpage here. *Please refer to saudiaramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comIn a recent video conference call with Saudi Aramco’s Riyadh Refinery and Distribution employees, Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser reiterated that the health and well-being of every employee is essential for the company’s business continuity plans to succeed.  “Wherever we are working from to support the company during this critical time, be it at refineries and plants, bulk plants, or at home, your health and well-being is essential for our business continuity,” Nasser said.  He was joined on the call by Abdulaziz M. Al-Gudaimi, senior vice president of Downstream; Suleman A. Al-Bargan, vice president of Domestic Refining and NGL Fractionation; Abdullah M. Al Mansour, vice president of Pipelines, Distribution and Terminals; and Abdulrahman A. Al Fadhel, manager of the Riyadh Refinery Department, as well as colleagues from the operational areas.  Ready for the unexpected
Nasser went on to express his appreciation for the readiness of the Riyadh Refinery teams, as they are currently conducting turnaround and inspection (T&I) activities at various refining facilities.  He cited lessons learned from last September’s attacks on Abqaiq and Khurais, which highlighted the need to “expect the unexpected,” and be ready to step up and respond quickly during times of adversity.  Adding that the COVID-19 pandemic is another test of Saudi Aramco’s capabilities and resilience, he noted that employees are working hard, making many sacrifices and observing health and safety precautions. Nasser highlighted how the company had to increase production to the maximum sustainable capacity of 12 million barrels of crude oil a day within less than three weeks; adding that this milestone moment in Saudi Aramco history demonstrated the readiness of employees and how every organization worked closely together to achieve this target.  Coming together to fight COVID-19
The company has undertaken stringent measures to tackle COVID-19, with the establishment of an executive task force headed by Nabeel A. Al Jama’, acting service line head of Operations and Business Services, while Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare’s (JHAH) response and readiness level was also elevated as the pandemic spread globally.  “JHAH is a significant contributor to our business continuity plans,” Nasser said.  The Riyadh Refinery, along with other Saudi Aramco refineries in-Kingdom, is playing an important role to support critical services, infrastructure, and the health care sector in the country’s efforts to fight the disease.  “We are continuing the momentum and service to support the Kingdom,” Al Fadhel said.  Fahad H. Al Salhi, Central Region Distribution Department manager, said during the videoconference that the Riyadh Bulk Plant has implemented safe distancing and stringent guidelines for 4,000 drivers who come through the plants in trucks.Aramco is today providing an update on how we are keeping our people and communities safe from COVID-19, while continuing to supply the world the energy it needs. In our response to COVID-19 we have prioritized the safety, health and wellbeing of our 70,000 men and women, as well as our communities, around the world. We have implemented measures to reduce the risk of infection and to mitigate the virus’s impact on our people and our business. The company and its employees have also supported community efforts to combat the spread of COVID-19. Our inbuilt systems for managing global crises ensure all our sites remain operational. Our supply chains also remain uninterrupted, as we continue to work with our partners to ensure safe delivery of materials. Aramco’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Amin H. Nasser, said:  “The world has encountered unprecedented complexities as a result of COVID-19, which have required high levels of agility and adaptability.  “The safety and wellbeing of our people has always been Aramco’s top priority and we continue to put them first in every decision we make.  “I am proud of how Aramco has responded to the challenge with a strong, united and compassionate approach, which stems from our deep-rooted community values. COVID-19 has no doubt created physical barriers, but it has also brought many of us closer together.  “We stand by our promise to do all that we can in the fight against COVID-19, helping those around us and delivering the world’s energy throughout this pandemic.” Aramco has a number of measures in place at each of our locations, including active prevention programs, detailed contingency plans and leading medical support services to minimize risk and ensure the best possible care. All these measures are in line with government and official health advice in each of our operating jurisdictions, alongside our own internal health measures which are guided by advice from the World Health Organization, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and the Ministry of Health in Saudi Arabia. We are proud to have a joint venture with Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare (JHAH), whose facility at our Dhahran headquarters is integral to our medical preparedness and response to COVID-19. We have worked with JHAH to roll out a company-wide health awareness campaign, including weekly updates, and ensure all our employees have access to the latest accurate information about preventing transmission of COVID-19, actions they should take if they display symptoms, tips on caring for themselves at home and where to receive medical assistance. In addition, we have launched a COVID-19 Mental Health Tool Kit, an online resource for people in isolation or quarantine, their family and friends. This provides guidance and practical steps on how to care for their emotional health during this stressful time. We have also facilitated working from home wherever possible, including employees considered to be at higher risk from infection, to reduce the in-office population, all in line with social distancing instructions issued by authorities in each of our locations. Managers have also been directed to ensure that their business continuity plans prioritize employees as part of our long-standing commitment to staff safety. As a result of the essential nature of their work, much of which cannot be done remotely, many of our staff continue to report to their usual workplace. We thank all those who turn up each day to ensure Aramco’s operations continue at all of our facilities, as well as our healthcare colleagues at JHAH - who are on the front line helping those who need assistance most. To protect those working at our facilities, we have intensified sterilization efforts, applied social distancing rules and ensured strict health practices are adhered to. There is also 100% thermal screening of employees and contractors across all facilities and company transport to limit the possibility of contagion at both onshore and offshore facilities.  Working with the communities in each of our geographies, and in line with relevant government measures, we are providing support that includes much-needed medical equipment such as ventilators, high-efficiency air purifiers and Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Saudi Arabia Global Asia Europe Americas Aramco stands ready to continue providing support to our people and communities around the globe. We are proud of our world-leading record of reliability, as well as our men and women who are doing their part to keep people safe and ensure essential business continues throughout this dynamic situation. Additional information on Aramco’s response to COVID-19 can be found in more detail on a dedicated webpage: saudiaramco.com/en/news-media/covidMedia contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comContrary to a recent media report, Aramco has not made any offers of extended payment terms to crude oil sales.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser made a virtual visit to the U.K, Europe, U.S., and Australia to check on the well-being of some of the company’s sponsored students studying in these countries. Accompanied by Nabeel A. Al Jama’, head of the COVID-19 taskforce, he visited the company’s Training and Development’s Dhahran COVID-19 Support Center in Dhahran earlier this week. During his visit, he was able to join in an online chat with some of the students.      The students, currently in different countries, were participating in the chat from their rooms or dormitories across a video screen. It gave Nasser the opportunity to hear firsthand the remote care and support they are receiving from the company during the coronavirus crisis. Set up in mid-March, the 24-hour COVID-19 Support Center is providing needed assistance resulting from the pandemic to thousands of Saudi Aramco-sponsored students in locations Kingdomwide and around the world. Through a three-pronged approach, the center has established contact with all students, addressing any specific requirements they may have in their current locations and looking into assistance such as relocation, or even repatriation to the Kingdom. Emphasizing to the assembled group of international students that Saudi Aramco is here to help them, Nasser said: “We care deeply about your health and well-being. You need to keep your spirits up, and despite what’s going on, I hope you can keep your focus to complete your programs.  “It is very important for us to manage the situation of all our students, while keeping them on track for their education.” Reassuring them that their health was the company’s first priority, he urged the students to follow the COVID-19 precautionary guidelines in their respective locations.   He also spoke about how the company is navigating through the crisis and how he greatly appreciates the personal experiences of the students to stay positive. 
Nasser expressed his appreciation for the work of the COVID-19 Support Center staff to make thousands of phone calls to students, saying a phone call to someone studying in a foreign country can “make a big difference.” The CEOs’ visit included an illustration for the virtual delivery of the College Preparation Program currently delivered to about 360 students.  Saudi Aramco has 80 proud years of educational history and runs a diverse array of training and development, covering apprenticeships, tertiary qualifications, and Kingdomwide partnership agreements with 16 training centers and 14 centers. After the international students’ group conversation with the CEO, The Arabian Sun spoke to Saudi Aramco-sponsored students.  Hesham Masoudi
Speaking from an apartment in New York, Industrial Security Support Department engineer Hesham Masoudi said he felt a lot of care coming from Saudi Aramco.  
In the second semester of his company-sponsored Masters in Management Science and Engineering at Columbia University, his wife and two children are with him, and the young family have not left their Manhattan apartment building for two weeks. “COVID-19 is an unprecedented situation. We are following the advice to isolate ourselves, and I am now doing my studies online,” said Masoudi. “Saudi Aramco is looking at the situation closely, and we feel our Aramco family is doing everything it can to help us.” Mohammad Alsemari
Mohammad Alsemari, a New Business Development representative, has been studying in Spain for almost 18 months. Completing an MBA with the IESE Business School, Alsemari was delighted to have a Skype chat with the CEO. “It was very comforting and uplifting to hear from our CEO, which shows the culture of our leadership in Saudi Aramco, especially during such times,” said Alsemari. “Taking the time to ask us about the care we are receiving from the company, inviting us to say what other support we need, shows Saudi Aramco’s embedded values of supporting and caring for its people.”   For more information on Aramco’s response to COVID-19 please visit here.Aramco today announced that Mark Weinberger has been appointed as an independent member to its Board of Directors, to replace  Andrew Gould.  On behalf of the Board, H.E. Yasir Al-Rumayyan, Chairman of Aramco’s Board of Directors, welcomed  Weinberger and expressed his appreciation to Gould for his dedication and invaluable contributions to the Board. “I would like to extend my warm thanks and best wishes to my fellow Board members, with whom I have been privileged to serve for over six years. I am honored to have been a part of Aramco during a truly transformational period in its history and I look forward with confidence to the Company’s continued success.” said Mr. Gould. Weinberger was the  global Chairman and CEO of EY (previously known as Ernst & Young) from 2013 to 2019. He was active in the World Economic Forum, as a member of its International Business Council and as a Global Steward for Economic Progress. He has also held several high level posts in the U.S. Government, including as Assistant Secretary  of the U.S. Department of Treasury (Tax Policy) under President George W. Bush and Member of the Social Security Advisory Board, under President Clinton. He served on Presidential advisary councils to President Trump and President Obama. “I am honored to be joining the Board of Aramco at this important time in the Company’s history and world events. I look forward to helping the Board continue to make the most of the opportunities and challenges that lie ahead and deliver value for all of Aramco‘s shareholders.”  Weinberger said.  Weinberger currently serves as a Director on the boards of Johnson & Johnson and Metlife as well as being a member on several Boards of Trustees, including the United States Council for International Business (USCIB). He is a senior advisor to Stone Canyon Industries Holdings, JUST Capital, G100 and many organizations focusing on corporate governance and long term value creation.   Weinberger has a B.A. degree from Emory University (Economics) in 1983, an MBA and JD from Case Western Reserve University in 1987 and an LLM in Taxation from Georgetown University Law Center in 1991.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAs the world demands economic stability, Aramco remains committed to supplying the world with energy. The Company is breaking records, to supply 15 tankers loading more than 18.8 million barrels of oil. DOWNLOAD THE VIDEOMedia contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comIn this unprecedented time of COVID-19, we are focusing our efforts to keep people safe and well - at work, at home, and in our communities. For many colleagues, reporting to their usual place of work remains essential; our health care colleagues at Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare, who are on the front line of COVID-19, as well as our people who work across our facilities and operations, continuing to reliably supply our global customers.  But with physical distancing a key tool in the fight against COVID-19, increasing numbers of eligible employees are working from home, in line with government instructions, with managers directed to ensure their business continuity plans continue to put people first.   Working remotely must be agreed by department management - including assurance that an employee has the right tools to carry out their role.  All desktops and laptops are now capable to securely connect to the corporate network from home. Additional tools include Skype for Business, which is available on company laptops and includes phone and video conferencing facilities and other collaboration features. If unsure, employees are recommended to discuss their individual remote work requirements with their Information Security Analyst (ISA).  With those tools in place, it is essential that before working from home that employees take the following steps: To help our people adjust to virtual workplaces, the Human Resources’ Leadership Development Division has been looking at global best practices to develop a webinar called Leading Virtual Teams. If anyone would like to continue their professional development during this period, the Leadership Center will be offering many of its one-day professional development programs in a virtual format, to specifically address virtual workplace best practices. This is a great time to continue your development, even at home. 
Regardless of working location, Saudi Aramco is committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of every colleague, their families, and their community. By following proper guidelines, including individual actions on hygiene, safety, and social distancing, we will all be doing our best to protect ourselves and each other.Dear colleagues,  
 As we continue to deal with the unprecedented impact of COVID-19, I would like to highlight the incredible efforts of our colleagues here in-Kingdom and around the world to ensure that we get through these testing times, together.   Currently, we have a number of colleagues who are in quarantine or self-isolation, as mandated by the Ministry of Health. This is mostly precautionary due to some having underlying medical conditions, some having recently returned from overseas, and some who were in contact with others but thankfully don’t necessarily have any symptoms. We have helped some employees to return home from overseas, but others are unable to due to travel or border controls and we are in close contact with them. We also have employees working from home and our business continuity plans continue to evolve, putting people first.  This health crisis is unlike any that the world has experienced in modern times.  We are all having to adapt to highly complex, fast-moving developments. Even with all the uncertainty, the Aramco family, along with our partners and contractors, has come together to coordinate our response.  We are supporting the many heroes whose work is essential for our core business of reliably and safely supplying energy to the world. Our healthcare colleagues at Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare and many others on the front line deserve our unlimited appreciation as they work around the clock to ensure business continuity, safe operations, and community well-being. The same spirit of shared mission after the attacks on Abqaiq and Khurais is once again motivating people across the company to succeed. I witnessed that personally when I visited several plants and facilities recently, and our deep-rooted culture of resilience is helping us all tremendously at this time.  To our colleagues in the frontline at our fields, plants, refineries, terminals, and other locations, as well as Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare, I want to say that your contribution is beyond measure. You are inspiring the rest of the Aramco family.  Thank you for everything you are doing.  Equally, we are sparing no effort to ensure that we have a safe working environment, with extensive disinfection efforts and health protocols being reinforced and continually tested. Critically, our success in stopping the spread of the disease will depend on individual actions toward hygiene, safety, physical distancing – following health guidelines and local laws, such as the 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew. To deal with a disease affecting all of humanity, we also need the very best of humanity on display. Our team spirit and community spirit will be crucial.  This is a pivotal moment in our history. Like many of you, I am confident we will get through this. When we do, we will look back with pride on how we did so, together.  Amin H. Nasser 
President & CEO   For the latest company and employee information related to COVID-19, please click here.  Saudi Aramco and Johns Hopkins Aramco Healthcare are working together to ensure the dissemination of accurate and reliable information to fight COVID-19 by changing the everyday behaviors that can allow the transmission of this virus within our communities. COVID-19 can be transmitted from one person to another by:This means that the physical distance between you and other people is an important part of stopping COVID-19.
Non-contact greetings help prevent the spread of the virus. Most notably: At work, be adaptable and leverage digital technology to protect your health and productivity. Assess if some face-to-face meetings could be replaced by a conference call or video call, e.g., postponing regular communications meetings. 
If an office meeting must take place, choose a location with good ventilation, and space the seating 1 meter apart to avoid crowding. Check in advance that the meeting room has hand sanitizer and tissues available.  The World Health Organization recommends that if an in-person meeting must occur, keep a record of the names and contact details of all participants for at least one month. This will help trace people who may have been exposed to COVID-19 if one or more participants become ill shortly after the event. Shared office environments require special attention to minimize the risk of COVID-19 transmission.  It is vital to ensure all shared workspaces and items are routinely cleaned — similar to what you would do at the gym when sharing equipment, wiping down machines after use. Office surfaces and technology must be cleaned with antimicrobial wipes between users/shifts to keep the spread of infection low.  Wipe down the following items with an antimicrobial wipe between shifts:  Many offices and work areas have coffee and food preparation areas for the convenience of employees. If it is not possible to temporarily close the area, follow these guidelines: Get the latest news from JHAHThe health and safety of our people, communities, and operations has always been at the heart of everything we do at Aramco. As we now confront the global spread of COVID-19, this is what drives our response. We monitor the situation closely every day – site-by-site, country-by-country. We are regularly in touch with our people, with advice and guidance from the authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. At all our sites, we have in place on-going, active prevention programs, as well as detailed contingency plans and leading medical support services, to minimize risk and ensure we can provide the best possible care and limit contagion.  The reliable production and supply of energy is the cornerstone of our company, and our promise to our customers – especially at challenging times like these. At each operating site, our prevention and contingency plans are designed to ensure business continuity, so that we can continue to supply the world with the energy it needs. We are proud of our dedicated people who consistently deliver on this promise. We will continue to provide you updates as the situation develops.The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Saudi Aramco” or “the Company”) today announced its full-year 2019 financial results, delivering strong profits and dividends despite a lower price environment and challenging margins in refining and chemicals. Net income was $88.2 billion for the full-year 2019, compared to $111.1 billion in 2018. The decrease was primarily due to lower crude oil prices and production volumes, coupled with declining refining and chemical margins, and a $1.6 billion impairment associated with Sadara Chemical Company. Free cash flow* was $78.3 billion, compared to $85.8 billion the previous year. This was primarily due to lower income, offset by lower capital expenditures and favorable working capital movements.   The balance sheet showed a gearing ratio of -0.2% at the end of 2019, demonstrating the Company’s strong and prudent financial framework.  Total dividend payments were $73.2 billion in 2019. As disclosed in the IPO prospectus, the Company has declared ordinary dividends of $3.9 billion, covering the period from December 5, 2019, the date IPO shares were allocated to investors, through December 31, 2019. These ordinary dividends represent a proportion of the $13.4 billion total ordinary dividends declared for the fourth quarter 2019. The dividends of $3.9 billion will be paid on March 31, 2020 to registered shareholders as at March 18, 2020.  With respect to calendar year 2020, and as described in the Company’s IPO prospectus, the Company, subject to Board approval, intends to declare aggregate ordinary cash dividends of at least $75.0 billion a year, paid quarterly. First quarter 2020 dividends are anticipated to be announced along with the Company’s first quarter 2020 financial results, which are expected to be published in May 2020. Capital expenditure last year was $32.8 billion, compared to $35.1 billion in 2018. The Company expects capital spending for 2020 to be between $25 billion and $30 billion in light of current market conditions and recent commodity price volatility. Capital expenditure for 2021 and beyond is currently under review. The Company’s low upstream costs and low sustaining capital provide significant flexibility and demonstrate differentiation to its peers.  In 2019, the Company remained one of the world’s largest producers of crude oil and condensate with an average total hydrocarbon production of 13.2 million barrels per day of oil equivalent.  Saudi Aramco’s total 2019 hydrocarbon reserves under the Concession Agreement were 258.6 billion barrels of oil equivalent (boe), compared to 256.9 billion boe in 2018.  Following the attacks on two facilities in September, the Company restored production levels within 11 days, due to its emergency response training and procedures. As a result, the Company demonstrated its long-standing reputation for reliability. In February 2020, the Company received regulatory approval for the development of the Jafurah unconventional gas field in the Eastern Province. It is the largest unconventional gas field in the Kingdom to date, with an estimated 200 trillion cubic feet of resources. The field will be gradually developed in phases. The start of production of the first phase is expected in early 2024.  In its downstream business, the Company continued to enhance its portfolio, optimizing operations and capturing value from strategic integration across the hydrocarbon value chain. Saudi Aramco entered into a share purchase agreement last year to acquire the Public Investment Fund’s 70% equity interest in SABIC, one of the world’s largest chemicals companies, for $69.1 billion. The acquisition will accelerate Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy and help capture rising demand for petrochemical products over the longer term. Upon closing of the SABIC transaction, anticipated in the first half of 2020, the Company is expected to become one of the world’s largest petrochemical producers by production capacity. In December 2019, Saudi Aramco completed the world’s largest initial public offering. This followed a $12 billion inaugural international bond issuance in April 2019.
Saudi Aramco continued to maintain a position of strong safety with respect to occupational and process safety performance. This was achieved by continuing to emphasize operational discipline, visible commitment to safety, and innovative safety technologies. Saudi Aramco improved its environmental performance of its upstream operations, reducing carbon intensity to an estimated 10.1 kg of C02e/boe in 2019 compared to 10.2 kg of C02e/boe the previous year. In addition, the Company is in the process of planting one million trees across the Kingdom, and has also launched a mangrove project with more than two million mangrove seedlings planted.  “2019 was an exceptional year for Saudi Aramco. Through a variety of circumstances – some planned and some not – the world was offered unprecedented insight into Saudi Aramco’s agility and resilience.” “Our unique scale, low costs, and resilience came together to deliver both growth and world-leading returns, while also maintaining our position as one of the world’s most reliable energy companies.” “These strengths, combined with a strong balance sheet and a disciplined and flexible approach to capital allocation, allow us to underpin our goal of sustainably growing free cash flow to support dividends to our shareholders despite continued volatility of markets.” “The recent COVID-19 outbreak and its rapid spread illustrate the importance of agility and adaptability in an ever-changing global landscape. This is central to Saudi Aramco’s strategy and we will ensure that we maintain the strength of our operations and our finances. In fact, we have already taken steps to rationalize our planned 2020 capital spending.” “As the world deals with the difficult and dual challenge of satisfying demand for more energy alongside responding to the rising desire for cleaner energy, I believe we are well positioned given our oil production is among the least carbon intensive in the world.”   *Please refer to saudiaramco.com/investors for reconciliation of non-IFRS measures  Saudi Aramco will discuss its full-year financial results for 2019 in a webcast on March 16, 2020, at 3pm KSA / 12pm GMT / 8am EST. The webcast will be available at saudiaramco.com/investors  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco announces that it received a directive from the Ministry of Energy to increase its maximum sustainable capacity (MSC) from 12 million barrels per day (MMBD) to 13 MMBD. It is to be noted that the MSC is determined by the State pursuant to the Hydrocarbons Law, enacted by Royal Decree M/37, dated 12/20/2017.Aramco, the world’s largest integrated oil and gas company, today announced a long term global sponsorship with Formula 1®, connecting the Company to a worldwide audience of 500 million racing fans. This agreement marks the Company’s first global sponsorship of a major sporting event. The sponsorship agreement features Aramco corporate trackside branding and grants Aramco the title rights to major Formula 1® races in 2020. Formula 1’s integrated digital platforms and broadcasts will also feature Aramco.  Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “We are excited to partner with Formula 1®, a strong global sports brand with millions of fans around the world. As the world’s largest energy supplier and an innovation leader, we have the ambition to find game-changing solutions for better-performing engines and cleaner energy. Partnerships like these are important to help us to deliver on our ambitions.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco Trading Company (ATC) today announces the establishment of its London subsidiary - Aramco Trading Limited (ATL). ATL will be at the forefront of ATC’s business activities in Europe and extended ATC’s operational reach to cover North and West Africa as well.  ATL is now the third international office for ATC alongside Aramco Trading Fujairah and Aramco Trading Singapore. “With the establishment of our London entity, we are pleased to now have a firm presence in Europe which will serve as the launching pad for our operations in Africa and the Mediterranean region,” said Mr. Ibrahim Q Al-Buainain, President and CEO of ATC.  He added: “Europe is an important market for ATC and the ultimate goal for ATL is to explore and develop new partnerships and opportunities with our clients in Europe, North and West Africa.”  ATL will be led by Mohammed A. Kadi and supported by an experienced team to service to ATC’s existing and potential customers in the region. The ATL office in London was inaugurated by Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Downstream, Abdulaziz Al-Gudaimi.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco is sponsoring the first international Carbon capture, utilization, and storage conference (iCCUS), held under the patronage of HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, Saudi Minister of Energy, and HE Sheikh Mohammed bin Khalifa Al Khalifa, Bahraini Minister of Oil, at the Four Seasons Hotel in Riyadh (February 25-26). The conference represents a major gathering of international and regional energy leaders and policy makers to discuss high impact solutions for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from the energy sector. Delegates are discussing progress towards a circular carbon economy, in which CO2 and methane emissions are reduced, reused, recycled and ultimately removed from the atmosphere. The discussions are focusing on how to unlock the potential of CCUS, a pivotal technology in which Saudi Aramco continues to invest.
Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “The world faces a dual challenge: meeting growing energy demand while reducing greenhouse gas emissions. We are leveraging 4IR technology solutions to work on the ‘4Rs of reduce, reuse, recycle and remove’ as part of our climate and sustainability efforts. High impact technological solutions, such as CCUS, can address this dual challenge while contributing to economic development.” Emphasizing Saudi Aramco’s leadership position, Nasser added: “We have the lowest carbon intensity in the industry, and continue to take further steps to significantly reduce GHGs.” In its participation, Saudi Aramco displays activities in energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions management, methane leak detection and repair, and flare minimization programs. The Company also operates the region’s most advanced CO2 capturing project, which is able to capture and inject large amounts of CO2 in the ground.   
The Company’s sustainability research projects focus on developing novel carbon capture and utilization solutions for both stationary and mobile applications.  Most recently, scientists in one research project, operated jointly by Aramco and the Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology (KAIST), announced they had discovered a viable path for carbon reclamation. “In our efforts to reduce CCUS cost, our scientist are developing some of the world’s highest capacity CO2 capture materials for large scale applications”, said Aramco chief technology officer Ahmad Al-Khowaiter. “We are also working with our partners on the development and scale-up of novel CO2 utilization technologies such as CO2 conversion to polymers and CO2 capture in cement”.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests: good morning … and thank you for joining us. We are deeply honored that His Royal Highness, the Amir of the Eastern Province, Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz, can be with us once again. We are also delighted that His Royal Highness, Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman, the Minister for Energy, has joined us today.  The support of our suppliers means a lot to Saudi Aramco. As you know, we take great pride in our low-cost production and our reputation for reliability. A first-class supply chain is a critical factor that makes both possible. Indeed, the importance of our supply chain was reinforced after the attacks on our facilities last September. The attackers tried to cripple us and hurt the global economy. What they underestimated … and what the world came to appreciate … was the resilience of Aramco and the determination of our people. As the smoke was still rising above Abqaiq and Khurais … we were bringing in materials, equipment and services to accelerate recovery. Thanks to iktva … more of this than ever, was available locally.As a result, we restored production more quickly and at a lower cost than most expected. I thank all who assisted. As for iktva overall, its success is reflected in the numbers. For the first time, the majority of our procurement is from in-Kingdom … 56% to be exact. Our suppliers have tripled their local purchases of goods and services. There has been a 13-fold increase in spending by our main suppliers in developing local sub-suppliers.Our suppliers are now investing three times the amount on R&D in the Kingdom. Their employment of Saudis is up 50%. And female employment has increased by almost a third. Our suppliers are exporting 50 percent more from the Kingdom … because of iktva.  But these impressive numbers only tell part of the story.  There has also been progress on several anchor projects that will deliver an industrial ecosystem. Projects like an integrated steel plate manufacturing facility … and the JV between Saudi Aramco, Hyundai Heavy Industries and Dussur to manufacture marine engines and pumps in the Kingdom. Such investment has one primary purpose: to create a highly efficient, cost-effective and reliable supply chain. A supply chain that helps keep costs down through economies of scale and also creates financial efficiencies. A supply chain where there is faster turnaround for maintenance and for new projects.  Now, meeting our 70% goal will be challenging.  But we are counting on all of you to contribute and to continue to deliver. Let me point out that we see four factors to greater iktva achievement. First, there needs to be a place where manufacturers can locate their operations … which is where the King Salman Energy Park comes in.  Second, developing a high-quality workforce is essential … which is why 16 vocational training institutions have been opened in the Kingdom.  Third, we recognize we are operating in an increasingly carbon-conscious world … which is why we, along with our suppliers, must take into account ESG considerations. The fourth factor is the most important ... iktva is only sustainable if it provides benefits to all involved. New business and market share and good returns for our suppliers. Efficiency, cost and reliability gains for Saudi Aramco.  Plus industrialization, economic diversification and employment benefits for the Kingdom.   So iktva must continue to open new doors of opportunity.  By enhancing the business environment for young Saudis … for entrepreneurs ... and for businesses, big and small.  In the end, the best measurement of iktva and what counts is how much positive impact all of us can have on people's lives. That's iktva in action.  Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comHis Royal Highness Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz, Governor of Eastern Province, opened today the 5th iktva Forum & Exhibition, in the presence of His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Minister of Energy, and His Royal Highness Prince Ahmed bin Fahd bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Deputy Governor of Eastern Province.   HRH the Governor echoed the support of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, and His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, for local content, in order to achieve the goals of Saudi Vision 2030, indicating that the Kingdom is full of opportunities and bright prospects, wishing Saudi Aramco continued success. Since its inception in 2015, the iktva program has demonstrated the inherent benefits of creating successful partnerships with business, government, and academia. The synergy driven by the iktva program has delivered greater levels of prosperity for the Kingdom, the local business community and Saudi Aramco with 56% of procurement spent in-Kingdom in 2019. Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO, emphasized the impact of partnerships in creating a highly efficient, cost-effective and reliable supply chain by stating: “Future readiness is forged from a culture of excellence - by giving people the skills they need to succeed in the jobs of the future. We’re enabling a vibrant commercial ecosystem that will drive efficiency and reliability of our operations. Through effective governance, iktva has created infrastructure, streamlined processes, and built capabilities that improve return on investment and leverage greater value for our company.” Nasser concluded his remarks by highlighting that the iktva program has a win-win nature in creating a sustainable vibrant multi-sector ecosystem. “IKTVA continues to open new doors of opportunity by enhancing the business environment for young Saudis, for entrepreneurs and for businesses, big and small. Ultimately, what counts is the impact it has on people’s lives – that’s iktva in action,” Nasser said. Saudi Aramco signed 66 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) and strategic and commercial collaborations valued at more than US$21 billion with international partner companies and entities from 11 countries in several industrial and business sectors across the Saudi Arabian energy sector. In addition, Saudi Aramco signed a joint venture agreement with Baker Hughes to establish a 50/50 Non-Metallic Joint Venture (NM JV). The joint venture will be a multi-sectorial non-metallic investment platform designed to innovate, develop and manufacture composite materials for both oil and gas as well as non-oil and gas applications. The JV will leverage polymer materials and state-of-the-art manufacturing processes to deliver transformational non-metallic products, starting with Reinforced Thermoplastic Pipes (RTP) and an investment of around $US110 MM. The JV facility will be located at the King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), and will serve the MENA region.   Saudi Aramco’s participation in the NM JV aims to help promote the use of RTPs which consume less energy and are less carbon intensive compared to conventional steel pipes. The NM JV is in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategy to support R&D, and deploy lower carbon intensity applications and products that are derived from oil. The MoUs and commercial collaborations included the following companies and entities: In addition to the signing of MoUs and commercial collaborations, an awards program was held to celebrate the program’s success stories for the year. The iktva 2020 Excellence Awards winners: The "iktva" program has attracted 468 investments from 25 countries with an estimated capital expenditure of $6.5B, resulting in 44 industrial facilities completed to-date, with another 64 facilities under construction. These investments contribute to building an integrating Saudi supply chain and bringing new capabilities to the Kingdom, such as the first facility for plate casing, the first Reinforced Thermoplastic Pipe (RTP) plant, and the first facility for drilling motor relining.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today announces regulatory approval of the development of the Jafurah unconventional gas field in the Eastern Province, the largest non-associated gas field in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to date. The field development plan is subject to the Company’s usual governance process. The Chairman of Saudi Aramco’s Board of Directors, His Excellency Yasir bin Othman Al-Rumayyan, expressed his thanks to His Royal Highness Prince Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, Chairman of the Supreme Committee for Hydrocarbons Affairs. H.E. also noted that the development of Jafurah is expected to enhance the Company’s position in the global energy sector, and help achieve its goal of being the world’s pre-eminent integrated energy and chemicals company. Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser, expressed his gratitude and thanks to His Royal Highness Prince Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, and to His Royal Highness Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Minister of Energy for their support. Mr. Nasser added that the development of Jafurah is meant to support the Company’s diverse resources and the Kingdom’s economic development. Jafurah is the largest unconventional non-associated gas field in the Kingdom, with a length of 170 km and a width of 100 km. The volume of gas resources in the field is estimated at 200 trillion cubic feet of rich raw gas, which will provide a valuable feedstock for the petrochemical industries. The Company expects the field’s production, to commence early 2024, to reach approximately 2.2 billion standard cubic feet per day of sales gas by 2036, with an associated approximately 425 million standard cubic feet per day of ethane, representing about 40 percent of current production. The Company also expects the field to produce approximately 550 thousand barrels per day of gas liquids and condensates. Saudi Aramco plans to develop Jafurah in accordance with the highest environmental standards. The Company expects that the development of Jafurah would have a positive financial impact in the long term, which will start to show on the Company’s financial results in phases concurrent to the field’s development.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAmin Nasser urges greater efforts to enhance regional cybersecurity collaboration and international cyber-deterrence.  Saudi Aramco established the Intelligence Sharing Consortium in the Energy Industry to defend against cybersecurity threats. Saudi Aramco’s President and Chief Executive Officer, Amin H. Nasser, participated today in the Global Cybersecurity Forum held under the patronage of The Custodian of the Two Hold Mosques, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, to highlight the constantly evolving threat of cyber-terrorism to governments, businesses, and individuals. Taking place during Saudi Arabia’s G20 presidency year and organized for the first time by the National Cybersecurity Authority, the forum serves to create a platform for discussion between private and government institutions to create foundations for greater cyber resilience, capacity and management of the ever increasing threat landscape.In his speech, Mr. Nasser urged greater efforts to enhance regional cybersecurity collaboration and international cyber-deterrence. Mr. Nasser proposed a more realistic and inclusive strategy to promote effective industry collaboration on cybersecurity, and encouraged businesses to work with governments and strengthen existing international frameworks. Mr. Nasser stressed: “Aligning cybersecurity policy, collaborating on technology, and sharing information and experience beyond the fence, is non-negotiable,” noting that company fences and national boundaries are meaningless concepts in this domain. “To beat a network, we need to be a network.” He said no institution can solely face cyber risks. It requires significant cooperation and partnership between all relevant stakeholders. It is therefore necessary to accelerate the development of a clear global framework that constitutes an international legal reference in cybersecurity governance and enhances measures against entities involved in cyber-terrorism.Mr. Nasser shared Saudi Aramco’s achievement in building a cyber-resilient culture, saying: “Cybersecurity is one of the top corporate risks we address in our Enterprise Risk Management Program and is a personal priority for me.”  He concluded his remarks by underscoring the importance of embracing “the wonders of the modern world,” while simultaneously practicing caution and sound cybersecurity measures to stay a step ahead. In efforts to collaboratively counter cyber threats, Saudi Aramco established an Intelligence Sharing Consortium in the Energy Industry, with partners such as SABIC and Sadara. Saudi Aramco is also a founding member of the World Economic Forum’s Center for Cybersecurity (WEF C4C) that promotes global collaboration and leads global initiatives across various sectors within the cybersecurity industry.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comRemarks by Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO Bismillah-al-Rahman-al-Rahim, and good afternoon. Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is a real pleasure to be with you at the first ever Global Cybersecurity Forum here in the Kingdom, under the patronage of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. I would like to thank His Excellency Dr. Musaid Al Aiban, Minister of State and Chairman of the NCA, for this welcome addition to the calendar.  Because, in my view, the constantly evolving and strategic nature of cybersecurity threats is still not fully understood by industry or receiving the attention it deserves. Governments, business in general, and individuals are all in the line of fire from cyber-terrorists. But critical industries like global energy - as well as water, electricity, banking, medical, and aviation - are particularly at risk. In fact, the more critical the target and sensitive the information, the more attractive it is to those who wish our industry harm. And they do wish us harm, right up to a digital Pearl Harbor.  Events on the ground have really brought this home. In August 2012, as the Eid holiday was starting, Saudi Aramco was hit by a serious virus attack. Thanks to our contingency and business continuity plans, and our broader resilience, our core operations continued and not a single process or product was affected. But other attacks have followed on other companies, in other regions, and the industry has indeed learned three particularly valuable lessons:  In addition, while things like digitalization and Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies are opening up new opportunities, it is also expanding the cyber-attack surface and threat landscape. In just five years' time, more than 75 billion Internet of Things devices - I repeat - 75 billion devices, will be running critical applications and infrastructure at nearly 1,000 times the speed today. This is a wonderful development in many ways, connecting new industries, geographies, and communities in ways that will benefit society and the planet. But this desirable fusion of traditional physical assets with the digital world also increases the risk of serious physical damage, at a 5G speed.  Fortunately, the growing digitalization our enemies are using to attack us is also our strength and advantage in defense. In fact, our cybersecurity capabilities should digitalize in proportion to the sheer scale, complexity, and volatility of digital risks. At Saudi Aramco, we are increasing the pace of digitalization and state-of the-art technologies. We are also improving our situational awareness through predictive analytics to prioritize threat protection where it is needed most.  But 91% of cyber-attacks start with a simple phishing email, and there is more private information on people's phones than in their homes or offices. So the human component will remain low-hanging fruit to cyber-terrorists unless people understand the seriousness of the risks, accept shared responsibility, and are trained to respond. That is why building a cyber-resilient culture at Saudi Aramco is a personal priority for me, and that starts at the top.  Cybersecurity is one of the top corporate risks we address in our Enterprise Risk Management Program, overseen by our Board. It puts cybersecurity on a par with market share loss, disruptive technologies, serious industrial accidents, geopolitical shocks, legal liabilities, and natural disasters. We also created the role of a Chief Digitalization Officer and a Chief Information Security Officer.  But company fences, and indeed national boundaries, are meaningless concepts in this domain. So aligning policy, collaborating on technology, and sharing information and experience beyond the fence is non-negotiable. Of course, there is a trade-off to be made between adequate cybersecurity and productivity, and therefore convenience, with each company needing to find its own balance.  But to beat a network, we need to be a network. That is why, for example, we are founding members of the World Economic Forum's Center for Cybersecurity. And last month we used the Forum to begin a new collaboration program called “Cyber-resilience in the Oil and Gas Sector”. That is also why digitalization and, by extension, cybersecurity are key themes of the Kingdom's G20 Presidency.  In addition, I believe three areas deserve special debate:  This third topic is highly complex, involving international consensus. But being able to defeat our enemies before they attack us (as well as if they do) would greatly strengthen our collective defenses.  Ladies and Gentlemen, let us make the future our ally, not our enemy. Let us embrace the wonders of the modern world, adapt new technologies, create new value, and meet the expectations of our customers, shareholders, and stakeholders. But let us also raise our game and guard to keep one step ahead of cyber-terrorists. Our bottom lines depend on it. Our facilities, assets, and businesses depend on it. Indeed, our futures, not just our safety reputations, depend on it.  Thank you. Saudi Aramco’s greenhouse gas emissions efficiency was described by Christiana Figueres, the former leader of the landmark 2015 Paris Agreement, as “an exception among the peers” during a live streamed panel debate on the global energy transition with president and CEO Amin Nasser at last week’s World Economic Forum (WEF). The significant acknowledgment from the former U.N. Framework Convention on Climate Change executive secretary included the company’s pioneering methane management: “Aramco is taking the lead on that (methane), but not everyone else is doing it,” said Figueres, known for speaking her mind. Figueres’ comments were well-earned recognition for the training and committed diligence of Saudi Aramco employees toward best-in-class operational management, and Nasser emphasized that the company wants the “carbon footprint of everything that we do” to be the lowest. “We continue to drive and position ourselves for the future in terms of lowering our carbon emissions, and maintain our competitive advantage when it comes to cost,” said Nasser. When compared with CO2, methane gas is 80 times more harmful to global warming in the first two decades after its release, and Saudi Aramco’s 0.06% methane intensity is one of the lowest in the industry, while the company’s upstream carbon intensity is one of the lowest in the world at about 10 kilograms of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent. Each year, WEF invites approximately 3,000 of our planet’s most influential leaders to gather in Davos to collaborate on international issues, and amid rises in carbon emissions during 2018 with a similar rise expected for 2019, concerns about climate change and sustainability dominated this year’s 50th annual conference. Delivering more, but cleaner, energy with less emissions to the world’s growing population — as well as the nearly 1 billion people with no electricity access — is a dual challenge of “more with less.” Nasser said demand for renewables, electrification, and alternatives will increase by 2040, but he cautioned against the simplistic view that a transition to a cleaner energy can occur overnight. He said transitioning was dependent upon affordability: “It takes a lot of financial capability that might not be available for all countries,” adding that meeting the world’s future energy demands will require traditional and newer energy sources to work together to meet future demand.  The panel discussed renewables and gas as a dual solution. “We use renewables as the backbone,” said Figueres, adding that gas is then used to firm up renewables “because they are not 24/7, 365,” and commenting that using renewables rather than “pulling the grid all the way out” to an isolated poverty area makes more financial sense. “It is not oil and gas that are a problem, it is the emissions from them,” she said. According to International Energy Agency executive director Fatih Birol, one-third of all the world’s CO2 emissions came from coal power plants. 
Adding that coal-fired plants were often the “No. 1 source of electricity generation in low income countries,” he advised that energy was not an issue that could be easily simplified, and that “Western-centric discussions” were wrong from both an ethical and climate point of view. Energy is a very serious complex business, especially in developing countries,” said Birol. With close to 3 billion people still relying primarily on biomass and kerosene for cooking, Nasser said, underdeveloped countries should not be lectured on delivering affordable electricity to their people. He added that changing coal-fired power with gas would result in a “huge reduction in carbon emissions,” and his view of the energy transition would be multi-speed, driven by a country’s geography and development curve.  Today’s oil consumption is 100 million barrels per day, and Nasser said that growing population, an emerging middle class, and lifting countries out of energy poverty means demand will continue at this level for another two decades. “There will be additional demand,” he said. “And the only way you can meet it is by making sure that you continue to provide affordable, reliable, ample, energy to the rest of the world.” Siemens president and CEO Joe Kaeser said rising energy demand has brought millions of people in the world out of poverty. He said that the future lay in renewables, Kaeser urged cooperation: “We have got to work together. This is something which concerns everybody.” Part of CNN’s Global Energy Challenge feature series, the panel provided a timely and realistic perspective to the global energy transition debate, and firmed consensus that hydrocarbons will be necessary to promote development and growth in developing countries.  The panel was moderated by CNN’s John Defterios, who remarked it was the “healthiest” energy transition debate so far.  Displayed to an “Art of Possible” theme, a Saudi Aramco exhibition stand highlighted the company’s investment in energy technology, global research and development commitment, and its awareness of climate change.  Using the most powerful reservoir simulation algorithm in the world, TeraPOWERS, visitors were immersed into a 3-D 5,000 foot journey below ground into an oil field. Transparent LED screens told the story of inspiration to commercialization, while other displays included the Fourth Industrial Revolution Center, flaring minimization, and the company’s realistic research about how to truly reduce carbon emissions from the light-duty transportation sector. WEF was founded in 1971 by executive chairman Klaus Schwab, who originated the term Fourth Industrial Revolution. This year’s event was held for four days from Jan. 21-24 under the theme of “Stakeholders for a Cohesive and Sustainable World.”  Later this year, Riyadh will host a WEF meeting under the banner of the Center for the Fourth Industrial Revolution.Saudi Aramco concluded the 12th International Petroleum Technology Conference (IPTC), the largest international oil and gas conference, which took place in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. The conference attracted record particpation of over 18,000 attendees and over 1,200 organizations from over 70 countries around the world, as well as over 250 exhibiting companies. Held under the patronage of HRH Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman, the 12th edition of this important international oil and gas conference was held for the first time in Saudi Arabia.  Among the prominent speakers were HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Minister of Energy, HE Shaikh Mohammed bin Khalifa bin Ahmed Al Khalifa Minister of Oil in Bahrain, HE Yasir O. Rumayyan, Chairman of Saudi Aramco, Amin H. Nasser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco, Patrick Pouyanné, Chief Executive Officer of Total, and Darren W. Woods Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ExxonMobil.  Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Upstream, Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani, showed his deep gratitude to HRH Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman for his generous patronage, and to HRH Prince Abdulaziz bin Salman Al-Saud, Minister of Energy for the inauguration of this prestigious conference.  Mr. Y. Al-Qahtani said: “The IPTC was the first international multi-disciplinary, inter-society oil and gas conference and exhibition held in Saudi Arabia. The Kingdom, with some of the world’s largest oil reserves, occupies a unique position at the crossroads of Europe, Africa and Asia, making it a fitting location for one of the largest and most prestigious international conferences for petroleum engineering.” He continued: “I would like to thank all participants for making this conference a forum for true thought leadership in energy. We have seen some of the brightest minds of our industry presenting their groundbreaking work over the past 3 days.” Al-Qahtani also thanked the team at IPTC and Saudi Aramco for working so tirelessly to deliver a truly world-class event, and the many young and wonderful volunteers who were so eager to extend help and support. He also extended his best wishes to Adif Zulkifli, PETRONAS Executive Vice President & CEO Upstream for hosting the conference in Kuala Lumpur next year. Dhahran will become the Middle East home for IPTC every two years and work has started for hosting IPTC 2022. The Saudi Council of Minsiters meeting, which was held yesterday, led by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, welcomed the opening of the 12th International Petroleum Technology Conference in the Kingdom, stressing that the work of the conference hosted by Saudi Aramco is in line with Saudi Vision 2030, and this industry reflects the ongoing efforts in the Kingdom to make the global energy vision reality.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today hosted the opening ceremony of the International Petroleum Technology Conference (IPTC), the leading international oil and gas conference taking place from January 13-15 in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  Held under the patronage of HRH Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman, the 12th edition of this leading international oil and  gas conference is being held for the first time in Saudi Arabia. With keynote addresses by HRH Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman, Minister of Energy and HE Yasir O. Rumayyan, Chairman of Saudi Aramco, the IPTC attracted more than 15,000 delegates from 70 countries. With the Kingdom hosting the G-20 summit this year, Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser congratulated Saudi government entities for their successful efforts in securing the prestigious industry conference to be held in the Kingdom. Mr. Nasser emphasized  the need to transition to a lower carbon energy mix and highlighted the role the energy industry has played in creating the economic prosperity the world enjoys today. "With IPTC 2020, we have the perfect platform to push forward in our efforts to demonstrate that our industry is an integral part of the long-term solution to global energy challenges. As part of the energy transition, I firmly believe, oil and gas will continue to play a significant role for a long time to come. " He added: "We have the capability to be leaders when it comes to addressing the need for more energy with less emissions and I am confident that our industry has the talent and the innovative mindset, which is required to find the best and most pragmatic solutions. "  Mr. Nasser participated in a plenary session with industry CEOs to discuss the theme ‘Vision to Prosperity: A New energy Era Emerges‘. Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President Upstream Mohammed  Al-Qahtani, Chief Digital Officer Nabil Al Nuaim, and VP Petroleum Engineering & Development Nasir K. Al-Naimi are also scheduled to speak during the conference. The Conference will, for the first time, incorporate workshops examining the importance of Diversity and Inclusion in the sector, an area in which Saudi Aramco has significantly advanced in recent years.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comFollowing up on an inaugural nonmetallics symposium in 2018 in Tokyo, 2019 saw Saudi Aramco recently host a number of industry specialists, alongside Plastipolis, in Lyon, France. A prominent forum host within Europe’s nonmetallics sector, Plastipolis provided a key bridge between Saudi Aramco and potential investors. Attended by more than 260 participants, the symposium was opened by Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, senior vice president of Technical Services with Saudi Aramco, who emphasized the sheer scale of opportunity to attendees. “Nonmetallics represent an opportunity to address operational challenges, in terms of our operational sustainability, while also allowing us to grow in what is a key downstream sector,” said Al Sa’adi. “For Saudi Aramco, the growth, development, and application of nonmetallic materials will be transformational. We see the huge shift in technology that has shaped material science, providing new material and solutions to our industry.” Joining Al Sa’adi was Plastipolis president Emmanuelle Bouvier, who was confident in Saudi Aramco’s ability to transition from its predominantly upstream business into new areas, such as plastics. “The relationship between Saudi Aramco and Plastipolis in nonmetallics is strategic — especially among the plastics and composites industry — because we need to think about the future of this industry and find the right trends,” she said. “Historically, Saudi Aramco is upstream, but it is increasingly expanding in downstream sectors, and with that we believe it will be very much fruitful to collaborate.” Pursuing not only sustainability but also advancements in technology and processes, two memorandums of understanding were signed by Aramco with Plastipolis and the leading French specialty chemicals manufacturer Arkema in an effort to establish a center of excellence to foster nonmetallic industries in Saudi Arabia and France and to promote local investment opportunities in nonmetallic in all sectors. The event included a panel discussion titled “Challenges and Opportunities for Nonmetallic Materials in the Circular Economy” in which Al Sa’adi said that to better position nonmetallic materials, we must first look at the current challenges and limitations of conventional materials, and then introduce new engineered polymers and advanced plastics. Research and development initiatives and collaboration with centers of excellence across the world will be a key enabler. These challenges could be in materials properties, cost of production, and pace of product development. The panel also included other key experts in the field of nonmetallics, including Jean-Paul Moulin, the material science director at Arkema, and Nieves Gonzalez Raman, the innovation manager at The European Chemical Industry Council.  Furthermore, several technical sessions were hosted covering a wide range of topics, such as carbon fiber manufacturing, automotive, building and construction, packaging, renewables, and a circular economy. These sessions were delivered by experts in nonmetallics from entities such as Axens, Plastic Europe, ITA RWTH, Fraunhofer IPT, Arlanxeo, SABIC, Roland Berger, IHS, DNV-GL, and others. Abdallah Al-Thaaly, manager of Saudi Aramco’s Industrial Development and Strategic Supply Department, shared an overview of the Saudi Aramco journey to localize its supply chain. Al-Thaaly highlighted the significant progress made so far in localizing nonmetallic materials, with 160 expressions of interest received from investors and 12 investments already realized in the Kingdom.  The event, jointly organized by Saudi Aramco and Aramco Overseas Company, was attended by leading European companies, research centers, key players in nonmetallic sectors, and hosted speaking guests from SAGIA, Modon, NEOM, and SABIC.Saudi Aramco welcomes the new agreement signed  between the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the State of Kuwait regarding the Saudi-Kuwaiti Partitioned Zone, which paves the way for the resumption of oil production at two fields. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser commented: “Today is a remarkable day within the framework of economic and oil cooperation and integration between both the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the State of Kuwait. With the signing of this new accord, both parties have reached consensus that now is the right time to resume production in this zone. Both sides will work to ensure production resumption at the earliest opportunity.” The historic agreement was signed in Kuwait City by HRH Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman, Saudi Minister of Energy and HE Khaled al-Fadhel, Kuwaiti Oil Minister and Minister of Electricity and Water.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Aramco Beijing Research Center (BRC) recently received the International Science and Technology Cooperation Award for Petroleum and Chemical Industries from the China Petroleum and Chemical Industry Federation.  The award recognizes the promotion of cooperative research in the fields of petroleum and chemical industries with China’s universities and research institutions.  BRC director Abdulaziz M. Al Muhaidib received the award on behalf of Aramco Asia during a ceremony held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China.  “We are proud of this achievement, which demonstrates our commitment to working with partners in China to develop high impact technologies that reduce cost and create significant environmental advantages,” said Aramco Asia president Anwar A. Al Hejazi. The BRC, established in 2015, is part of Saudi Aramco’s global network of research centers and offices working on developing solutions to address challenges in the oil and gas industry.  Al Muhaidib noted BRC’s diligent work to build stronger research ties with experts in China and to form strategic collaborations with top research institutions and industrial partners in developing cutting-edge solutions to upstream and downstream challenges.  “This award demonstrates the quality of our research collaborations, as well as the capability of our scientists and researchers,” said Al Muhaidib. Working with partners on energy solutions
Furthermore, the BRC has completed multiple research projects with leading universities and industry partners, in addition to hosting numerous graduate students for summer internships. Earlier this year, the following researchers were recognized for research and technical excellence, including:Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) has completed, through its subsidiary Aramco Overseas Company B.V. (AOC), the acquisition of 17% of Hyundai Oilbank from Hyundai Heavy Industries Holdings, for approximately US$1.2 Billion. The completion follows receipt of all necessary regulatory consents and approvals. The investment in South Korea’s Hyundai Oilbank supports Saudi Aramco’s Downstream growth strategy of expanding its global footprint in key markets in profitable integrated refining, chemicals and marketing businesses which enable Saudi Aramco to place crude oil and leverage its trading capabilities. Hyundai Oilbank is a private oil refining company established in 1964. The Daesan Complex, where Hyundai Oilbank’s major facilities are located, is a fully integrated refining plant with a processing capacity of 650,000 barrels per day.  The business portfolio of Hyundai Oilbank and its five subsidiaries includes oil refining, base oil, petrochemicals and a network of gas stations.
Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco recently unveiled to the public for the first time its low CO2 Class 8 heavy-duty truck that utilizes one of the company’s flagship technologies, a mobile carbon capture system that dramatically reduces CO2 emissions at the tailpipe. The truck, on display at the SAE Innovations in Mobility conference in suburban Detroit, employs a number of carbon emissions reducing technologies to drop carbon emissions to an estimated 50% of the baseline vehicle. The largest reduction comes from the mobile carbon capture system that was integrated into a Volvo VNL400 Class 8 truck. The system has demonstrated a CO2 capture rate of over 40% in the laboratory, and it will soon undergo road tests as part of Aramco’s efforts to develop technologies that improve the sustainability of transportation. The capture system that sits behind the truck’s cab consists of several components that pull CO2 from exhaust gas using a selective absorbent material. The sorbent regenerates by harvesting available energy from the coolant and exhaust systems to produce a pure stream of CO2. This is stored in onboard tanks that are sized to be easily unloaded during refueling stops.  Once off-loaded, the CO2 could be put into dedicated pipelines for use in industry as a feedstock for low life cycle carbon materials or for sequestration underground. In addition to heavy-duty road vehicles, the system could potentially be adapted for use in locomotives and marine vessels. “This system offers a compelling option to reduce carbon emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. It is a potentially game changing technology that offers the potential for deep decarbonization of the transport sector,” said Esam Hamad, leader of the mobile carbon capture program. Aramco’s previous mobile carbon capture research has included demonstration systems on a Ford F250 and Toyota Camry. Incorporating the latest technologies developed by Aramco, the most recent commercial truck demonstrator substantially increases the potential to reduce CO2 emissions in transport. “Our capture rates have improved significantly just in the past few months,” said Alex Voice, lead chemical engineer on the project. “We are excited to continue our activities to extend these improvements, demonstrate the benefits on-the-road, and reduce the system size and cost, while increasing efficiency.” To reach 50% CO2 emissions reduction, the truck also incorporates a number of other innovative technologies.  Volvo offers both a liftable axle and engine turbocompounding to raise the efficiency of the truck and these both appear on the demonstrator.  In addition, Aramco has outfitted the vehicle with single-wide, low rolling resistance tires, as well as a low friction engine lubricant, and plans to convert the engine to run on a lower carbon content gasoline in the future. While at the SAE event, Steven Przesmitzki of ARC-Detroit gave a well-received keynote presentation explaining how looking at emissions on a lifecycle basis shows that vehicle technologies beyond electrification are an attractive and economic pathway to meet future regulations as the world’s energy needs grow.Saudi Aramco has officially listed on the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul) today, marking the successful Initial Public Offering of the Company. For more information,kindly click here. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comFikr17, a leading cultural conference in the Arab World, features 12 sessions under the theme “Toward New Arabic Thought,” with 80 speakers, as well as 36 sponsors and partners. The event, which runs through Thursday, is expected to draw more than 600 attendees from the around the region and beyond. The event has been featuring several workshops and talks, as well as an exhibition for the Fikr17 event. Key offerings include the “Youth Café,” where attendees will participate in talks and workshops held at Ithra’s Library and Plaza examining current global challenges and the important role of dialog.  In line with Fikr17’s thought-provoking themes, Ithra’s curators have selected three installations by prominent pioneering Arab artists such as Saudi artist Muhannad Shono, the late UAE artist Hassan Sharif, and Moroccan artist Younes Rahmoun, exhibited at Ithra’s Plaza and Lush Gardens.  Ithra’s partnership to host Fikr17 demonstrates the Center’s commitment as a leading cultural platform for impact-driven programs that champion cultural enrichment and promote the importance of the exchange of ideas.  This year’s conference features high profile attendees and speakers, including HRH Prince Khalid Al Faisal, President of the Arab Thought Foundation; HE Ahmed Aboul Gheit, Secretary General of the League of Arab States; Professor Henri Awit, Director General of the Arab Thought Foundation; HE Dr. Anwar Gargash, UAE Minister of State for Foreign Affairs; and Dr. Ghassan Mourad, professor of Computational Linguistics and Digital Media at the Lebanese University.  Awit delivered the opening address, which was followed by an inspiring video about Ithra. Aboul Gheit also addressed attendees on the opening night Monday, with HRH Prince Faisal welcoming everyone to the first-ever Fikr held in the Kingdom. In addition to the opening session, Fikr17 includes three public sessions and eight specialized sessions for attendees. Fatmah Alrashid, acting director of Ithra, commented on the significance of the partnered initiative. “Ithra is proud to partner with the Arab Thought Foundation to host Fikr17 at the Center as part of our shared mission to promote learning and spread knowledge, creativity, and innovation through impact-driven opportunities addressing global topics,” said Alrashid. “Fikr provides a significant regional platform to promote the importance of dialog and the exchange of ideas championed by the Arab World in a collaborative setting. Ithra is dedicated to delivering programming designed to accelerate human potential, foster youth empowerment and champion Arab culture, identity, and talent.” Since launching in 2002, Fikr has become a leader in cultural conferences within the Arab World, providing an interactive platform for dialog, development, and idea exchange designed to empower the next generation of Arab youth. The conference promotes discourse in addressing significant global topics in its duration.
For more information about the Arab Thought Foundation and Fikr17, visit arabthought.org.
The year was 1945 — the average cost of a new house in the United States was $4,600, the average annual salary was $2,400, and the World War II was in its final throes. This was the heyday of magazine publishing and LIFE magazine was renowned for the excellence of its photographic essays and the thoroughness of its writing. In 1945, Saudi Aramco’s innovative approach to safety education — in the form of a series of educational safety posters — found its way onto the pages of the prestigious publication. In 1949, Saudi Aramco was again featured in an expansive feature story in LIFE’s pages, examining the scale of the company’s operations and approach to the safety education of its rapidly expanding workforce. The articles stand as a historical testament to the company’s early safety efforts. The magazine published weekly from 1936 to 1972, as an intermittent “special” until 1978, and as a monthly until 2000.  Now in 2019, Saudi Aramco’s Loss Prevention Department (LPD) has tracked down original copies of the magazines for distribution as gifts and for display at prominent areas within the company. LPD is the natural inheritor of a responsible safety culture laid down in the early days of the company’s existence. LPD manager Ghassan G. Abulfaraj says the department has been working on a project to document the company’s safety educational journey over the last 80 years.
“I had heard that Saudi Aramco had been featured in an article in LIFE magazine back in the 1940s, and specifically that the article related to safety.  “While this is not new for the company, the thing that stood out for me was the safety theme — especially during a time when most companies were not nearly as safety-focused as they are today,” said Abulfaraj.  “Once we confirmed the article did in fact exist, we got to work on researching whether we could source any original copies. Luckily for us, we were able to obtain 12 original copies from a magazine collector in the United States.” The 1945 article displays some of the early posters at the heart of the safety culture of a company that would emerge as an energy industry behemoth and a major economic driver for the Kingdom. For Saudi Aramco, safety was a priority right from the beginning. A series of posters, featuring stick men in on-the-job scenarios, sought to educate the early workforce of the dangers and challenges that could be encountered in the field. The proper use of tools and equipment to minimize risks feature prominently.
“Saudi Aramco has a long and proud history in relation to the safety of our people,” says Abulfaraj. “This can be tracked back to the earliest days of the company in the late 1930s — a time when the field of modern safety engineering was still in its infancy.  “In 1940, the Arabian American Oil Company hired its first professional safety engineer who was tasked with instilling safe work practices in a largely unskilled, but rapidly developing, workforce. It was during this time that the company also recorded a significant drop in its accident frequency rates.  “Fast forward 80 years and not much has changed,” says Adulfaraj. “Our commitment to a safe workplace still underpins every facet of our business. Our safety record is among the top in the world for our industry, and by embracing new safety technologies through the Fourth Industrial Revolution, we are constantly striving to improve and make our business safer.” Abulfaraj sees the modern Saudi Aramco as a global example of industrial safety best practices. “It is important to look back at articles like this and realize that even back in the company’s earliest days, we were leading the way in areas related to safety best practices and education,” he adds. “It was this sort of forward-thinking approach that laid the foundation for the world-class safety culture that is evident in Saudi Aramco today. Whether it is educating employees on the correct use of personal protective equipment, or hosting awareness events for members of our communities, we are at the forefront of safety education in everything that we do.” This window into the past, Abulfaraj believes, provides a fascinating insight into the company’s safety culture journey, and that journey continues today. “Striving for continuous improvement has always been fundamental to the manner in which our company operates, and I feel that as we continue to build upon our already remarkable safety culture that the results will follow. “We will continue to focus on key areas including safety leadership, process enhancements, safety education and innovation and technology. These will be key drivers in ensuring that Loss Prevention Department achieves its vision of ‘Enabling Excellence in Safety.’”The 11th International Conference and Exhibition on Chemistry in Industry (ChemIndix) was held last week under the patronage of HRH Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Bahrain.  The conference, organized by the Saudi Arabian International Chemical Sciences Chapter of the American Chemical Society, revolved this year around the theme of finding “Breakthrough Solutions through Innovative Materials.”  Saudi Aramco has been supporting ChemIndix since its inception and this year was one of three diamond sponsors. The event focuses on developing breakthrough solutions to the challenges facing the energy and petrochemical industries.  Five main topics were discussed in three executive panels, five keynote speeches, 120 oral technical presentations, about 100 posters, and more than 35 think-tank sessions. The topics were on innovative materials in future cities and industries, digital transformation, breakthrough solutions in refining and chemicals, solutions in exploration and production, and on circular carbon economy and sustainability. Circular carbon economy
During a panel session on the concept of a circular carbon economy, Saudi Aramco’s chief technology officer and the Executive Conference Advisory Board chairman, Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, presented the view of the oil and gas industry.  Al-Khowaiter defined a circular economy as moving from a linear model, where materials are used and then disposed, to a more circular manner through the reduction of consumption, reuse, and recycle.  For circular carbon use, CO2 emissions from hydrocarbon combustion should be captured, reused, and recycled in other forms of energy to close the carbon cycle efficiently.  Al-Khowaiter emphasized the important role of oil and gas in powering the world economy through energy that sustains factories, mobility, and contributes to the growth and prosperity of societies. Leveraging renewables, he said, can ensure that these processes are carbon negative.  “Without that carbon-free energy, you can’t recycle the CO2,” said Al-Khowaiter. He noted that the circular concept presents an option to achieve a balance between societal needs, protecting the environment, and relying on the reduction and recycling of emissions only is insufficient.  The removal can be achieved via traditional methods such as forestry or industrial means. The goal, he said, is to achieve a balance between the carbon emitted and the amount reduced, recycled, and removed.  ‘Natural order of things’
“This carbon balance is the natural order of things. So, taking our economies and making them aligned with nature just means restoring the carbon balance. That is what the Earth has been doing for billions of years, and we need to be able to emulate that,” he said.  Al-Khowaiter highlighted Saudi Aramco initiatives to move toward the circular economy via reducing, recycling, and removing CO2. The company has undertaken a number of initiatives to reduce carbon emissions from its operations, ranging from the annual reduction of gas flaring since the 1980s, and committing to eliminate it completely by 2030, and to applying a comprehensive energy management program.  Beyond its operations, Saudi Aramco is collaborating with automotive engine manufacturers to maximize efficiency to reduce the emissions from using hydrocarbon fuels, he said. Additionally, the company is working with a number of partners to develop carbon capture and storage technologies for cars and trucks, and enabling the unloading of the CO2 at fuel stations for recycling into another energy form.  The latest development in this program is the successful testing of technology for heavy-duty trucks and achieving the capturing and storing capability of 45% of the CO2 emitted from the engine exhaust.  In terms of CO2 removal, Saudi Aramco is sequestering 800,000 tons of CO2 per year to enhance oil recovery in the ‘Uthmaniyah field. The company is also examining different options for sequestering carbon, including directly removing CO2 from the air at an industrial scale. Al-Khowaiter also spoke about Saudi Aramco’s ongoing research projects that are designed to achieve advancements in chemistry and material sciences to enable the direct conversion of oil into chemicals through which CO2 emissions are reduced and efficiently captured and stored, achieving a level of recyclability of carbon.  Student hackathon
As part of the conference, ChemIndix hosted a student hackathon where students from various universities from throughout the Kingdom competed to develop innovative and breakthrough solutions in three challenging areas — circular carbon economy (which was sponsored by Saudi Aramco), innovative materials, and the Fourth Industrial Revolution.Saudi Aramco recently honored a number of local manufacturers distinguished for offering high-quality products at the 2019 Saudi Aramco Quality and Excellence Forum, which was held for a second consecutive year.  Conducted under the theme “Leading Change in the Quality of Manufacturing, Construction and Services,” the forum sought to boost excellence in quality by providing a platform where Saudi Aramco and key proponents in the manufacturing sector could share ideas in the area of quality. The event also sought to: Encouraging ‘Made in Saudi Arabia’ and building trust
“Saudi Aramco seeks to recognize the advanced quality sector in the Kingdom and encourages the ‘Made in Saudi Arabia’ trademark by giving quality performance awards, which is one of the national quality criteria, and enhancing the customer trust in local products and enterprises,” said Abdullah O. Al Baiz, Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Engineering Services. Al Baiz noted the forum is a Saudi Aramco initiative to improve quality on the national level — both in the area of manufacturing and projects of contractors and suppliers, which will lead to high-quality national products. 
“It also represents an opportunity to showcase best practices in the area of quality and encourage competition among manufacturers and contractors to increase competency,” he said. This year’s winners
Speakers from a number of regional and world business organizations, academia, and industry leaders participated in the event, addressing a wide range of topics, including manufacturing quality systems, construction quality systems, inspection techniques, and the role of institutions in the field of quality.  This year’s top winner in the sector of major companies was ArcelorMittal Tubular Products in Jubail. Second place went to Jubail Energy Services Company, and Nasser Saeed Al Hajri Metal Forging Factory was awarded third place.  In the sector of small- and medium-sized enterprises, the first-place winner was the Industrial Valves Manufacturer Company, while S & T Gulf Ltd. Company came in second, with Ashcroft Al Rushaid Instrument Co. Ltd. awarded third place. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comUnder the patronage of the Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques, King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, Saudi Aramco has been awarded the King Khalid Award 2019 for Corporate Sustainability.   The Yanbu’ Refinery Department (YRD) won top honors in this category and was recognized during the award ceremony in Riyadh on Monday. “I feel very proud for being honored by King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud for Saudi Aramco’s Yanbu’ Refinery,” said Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco president and CEO. “It is a badge of honor to every employee in the company — especially that the essence of this award revolves around corporate sustainability which is considered — more than ever — to be a pivotal subject in energy transformation during the 21st century. “Saudi Aramco is an international leader in the oil and gas industry within this field, and this reflects on the company’s excellence, and its transformation into the world’s biggest integrated company in energy and chemicals, which constantly contributes in supplying the world with needed energy for the continuity of its prosperity, in addition to increasing its economic growth,” Nasser added. Innovation driving excellence at Yanbu’ Refinery
Yanbu’ Refinery earned the first place recognition in the Corporate Sustainability category by distinguishing itself for the innovative incorporation of sustainability in its practices, as well as operations on social, economic, and environmental levels in the Kingdom. Nasser noted that Yanbu’ has been one of the company’s local refineries with a strategic importance since its establishment in 1983. With a processing capacity of 250,000 barrels of crude oil per day, it is efficiently led and operated by a highly qualified Saudi workforce. It is considered a vital artery in supplying the local market with petroleum products. Yanbu’ Refinery is also an exceptional example of the oil and gas refining systems in the Kingdom, as it has attained groundbreaking levels in efficiency, reliability, and safety in an economical and sustainable way.  “This award reflects the commitment and dedication of all leaders and staff at Yanbu’ Refinery in achieving the goals of Saudi Aramco’s Operational Excellence program, which has led Yanbu’ Refinery to win multiple awards throughout Saudi Aramco, across the Kingdom, and around the world in the past few years, in the fields of energy, safety, environment, cybersecurity, and social responsibility, in addition to sustainability. “It is considered an exemplar of Saudi Aramco’s facilities that implement sustainability in their core operations through the use of low-carbon energy solutions, following regulations and standards in operations, maintenance, and innovation fields,” said Nasser. “This is in addition to raising the employees’ awareness on the importance of a commitment to environmental standards, and successfully implementing social, economic, and environmental initiatives such as the use of advanced technology toward creating a clean energy industry.” Nasser also highlighted YRD’s restoration of natural habitats, which are essential for marine organisms and birds, through the planting of a mangrove forest — something that is considered to be the most important natural basin for the absorption of carbon dioxide. “It is also a platform for Saudis to gain the necessary skills that will enable them to work in the oil and gas industry through training institutes — all while still maintaining outstanding safety performance with no incidents and no injuries,” he said.  Relying on our people, our processes, and the spirt of R&D
Nasser credited YRD’s win in the Corporate Sustainability category to the application of development initiatives that includes many aspects, such as:  Nasser expressed his pride and happiness with an award that comes from the prestigious King Khalid Foundation, adding that the award will present a motivating factor for employees and departments toward excellence and creativity. Nasser also thanked HRH Prince Faisal ibn Khalid ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud (King Salman’s consultant and the Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the King Khalid Foundation), who has worked diligently to encourage private businesses through this award, enabling them to play a crucial role in the development of the Saudi community.  About the King Khalid Foundation
The King Khalid Foundation is a platform to celebrate, honor, and recognize enterprises that have created a competitive advantage through the innovative use of sustainable business practices and in doing so, have helped spur Saudi Arabia’s social, economic, and environmental progress. The nominees are selected on the basis of their positive contribution in social challenges, as well as social sustainability.  These awards enable others who strive to achieve economic growth to follow the same path.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco is participating in the 2019 Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference (ADIPEC) held November 11-14 and encouraging industry representatives to press ahead with implementing Fourth Industrial Revolution (4.0) technologies.  At the conference, of which Saudi Aramco is a partner sponsor, the Company’s Senior Vice President of Operations and Business Services Muhammad M. Al Saggaf, joined a panel titled "How is the industry embracing digital innovation?” on the industry’s digital transformation and the latest trends in technology. He reflected on Saudi Aramco’s research and development (R&D) and deployment of the TeraPOWERS technology, which models reservoir physics from the original generation to final production. This technology enables the Company to model the physics of its reservoirs to prioritize prospects, reduce exploration risks and costs, and sustainably manage its reservoirs.  On November 13, Senior Vice President of Downstream Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi will participate in a panel, "Downstream 4.0: Refining and Petrochemicals - Growth Through Innovation and Digitisation,” on new strategies around digital, people and business partnership. He will welcome the opportunities presented by 4th Industrial Revolution technologies and reaffirm Saudi Aramco’s commitment to continue developing, harnessing, and fully utilizing the emergent technologies for value creation. Saudi Aramco’s efforts in the energy sector’s 4.0 transformation were recognized by the World Economic Forum (WEF) in September 2018 when Saudi Aramco’s Uthmaniyah Gas Plant was named one of the Fourth Industrial Revolution 4.0 “lighthouses”. The plant is the only facility in the Middle East recognized by WEF, and Saudi Aramco is the first energy company globally to be included in this group of 16 manufacturing sites selected from an initial list of 1,000 manufacturers from around the world.  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com**NOT FOR PUBLICATION, DISTRIBUTION OR RELEASE, DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY, IN OR INTO THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, CANADA, JAPAN, AUSTRALIA, SOUTH AFRICA OR ANY OTHER JURISDICTION WHERE SUCH DISTRIBUTION IS UNLAWFUL** This announcement is not a prospectus and not an offer of securities for sale or subscription in any jurisdiction, including in or into the United States, Canada, Japan, Australia or South Africa. Neither this announcement nor anything contained herein shall form the basis of, or be relied upon in connection with, any offer or commitment whatsoever in any jurisdiction. Any offer to acquire shares pursuant to the proposed offering (the “Offering” or the “IPO”) will be made, and any investor should make his investment decision, solely on the basis of the information that is contained in the prospectus (the “Prospectus”) to be published by Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) (the “Company” or “Saudi Aramco”) in due course in connection with the listing (“Listing”) of its ordinary shares (“Shares”) on the Saudi Stock Exchange (the “Exchange” or “Tadawul”). Copies of the Prospectus will be available on the websites of the Company at www.aramco.com, the Exchange at www.tadawul.com.sa, the Capital Market Authority (“CMA”) at www.cma.org.sa and each of the Joint Financial Advisors (as defined below).   Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) has today issued a prospectus for its initial public offering on the Saudi Stock Exchange (Tadawul).  More information can be found by clicking here. The offering period for the Institutional Subscribers begins on 17/11/2019 and closes at the end of 04/12/2019. The offering period for Individual Subscribers begins on 17/11/2019 and closes at the end of 28/11/2019.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco signed crude oil sales agreements for 2020 with five Chinese customers, increasing total volume by 151,000 barrels per day compared to their 2019 supply contracts. These new sales agreements further solidify the Company’s position as China’s top crude supplier.  These five new agreements were signed separately on the sideline of the second China International Import Expo (CIIE), the largest trade fair held under the patronage of Chinese President Xi Jinping.  Commenting on the newly signed agreements, Ahmed Al-Subaey, Vice President of Marketing, Sales and Supply Planning, said, “The new agreements signed at CIIE reflect Chinese customers’ continued faith in Saudi Aramco’s supply stability and operational excellence. Likewise, the new agreements demonstrate our continued commitment to the world’s fastest-growing oil market.” This is the second consecutive year that Saudi Aramco has attended CIIE. Last year, the Company signed a number of crude oil sales agreements with Chinese customers that helped to propel Chinese crude oil sales in 2019 to new levels. These agreements reflect Saudi Aramco’s efforts to strengthen its position in China and support the country’s growth in refining and petrochemicals, as well as overall energy security.  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSix Aramcons took home prestigious awards from the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) 2019 Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition held recently in Calgary, Canada.  The SPE is the largest individual organization serving managers, engineers, scientists, and other professionals worldwide in the oil and gas industry.  Each year during its Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition (ATCE), SPE honors members whose outstanding contributions to SPE and the petroleum industry merit special distinction. Recipients of the 2019 International Awards were recognized at the annual reception and awards banquet in Calgary. Presenting the awards was SPE president Sami A. Alnuaim, manager of Saudi Aramco’s Petroleum Engineering Applications Services Department. Taking home the SPE Distinguished Service Award was Saeed M. Al-Mubarak, a petroleum engineering consultant who has led the Intelligent Field Unit in the Production and Facility Development Department. Al-Mubarak was recognized for his “contributions to the society that exhibit such exceptional devotion of time, effort, thought, and action as to set them apart from other contributions.”  In addition to intelligent fields, Al-Mubarak has led important teams, including the strategic team managing the world’s largest intelligent fields. He has also worked in reservoir, production, drilling and completion, facilities, and knowledge management positions.  Alnuaim said: “On behalf of the SPE board of directors, I would like to take this opportunity to thank Saudi Aramco for supporting the active involvement of Saeed in the SPE. Member participation and leadership are important factors that enable the SPE to achieve its mission of collection, dissemination, and exchange of technical information.”
Alnuaim was himself the first Saudi winner of the SPE Distinguished Service Award in 2011. The award was established in 1948.  Another recipient of the SPE Distinguished Service Award was David G. Kersey, recently retired from Saudi Aramco as senior petroleum engineering consultant in the Upstream Professional Development Center.  Kersey has been chairman of the SPE Java Indonesia and Saudi Arabia sections. He also initiated the formation of a Hawaiian SPE section. He is an SPE Distinguished Member, has been recognized three times as an outstanding technical editor, and received the Asia Pacific and Middle East regional SPE service awards. Aramcons earn memberships
Receiving Honorary Membership was Anuj Gupta, a senior petroleum engineering consultant at the Aramco Research Center-Houston, where he conducts and leads research on simulation modeling workflows for unconventional reservoirs, an area of growing importance as Saudi Aramco increases its unconventional exploration activities in the Rub’ al-Khali and the northern regions of Saudi Arabia. Gupta’s research has advanced the disciplines of unconventional reservoirs, reservoir characterization, enhanced oil and gas recovery, petrophysics, and drilling. In addition to these awardees, the SPE also awarded Distinguished Membership to the following: Saudi Aramco announced today that it is joining the World Bank Initiative: ‘Zero Routine Flaring by 2030’. Saudi Aramco has a strong focus on flaring reduction, which remained at less than 1% of its total raw gas production in the first half of 2019.  Ahmad A. Al-Saadi, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice-President, Technical Services said: “We are proud to join the ‘Zero Routine Flaring by 2030’ Initiative, which we view as an important global effort to eliminate flaring. We have been taking active steps to reduce flaring in our operations for the past 40 years and have invested in a range of flaring reduction technologies and programs to achieve our excellent performance.”  He further noted: “Beyond this initiative, we are also investing in advanced technologies to enable greater efficiency and lower emissions in transport, carbon-free hydrogen fuels, and carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS). This is all part of our broader effort to enable the circular carbon economy and deliver clean, reliable and affordable energy to the world while minimizing greenhouse gas emissions.” Saudi Aramco’s low flaring levels are a result of its decades-long focus on sustainability, which encompasses the development of the Kingdom’s Master Gas System in the 1970’s, rolling out a Company-wide Flaring Minimization Roadmap, using innovative flaring reduction technologies and establishing a Fourth Industrial Revolution Center that monitors all the company’s operations including flaring in real-time.   In addition, and as a result of Saudi Aramco’s reservoir management best practices, flaring minimization and energy efficiency programs, the Company’s 2018 upstream carbon intensity figure is among the lowest globally at 10.2 kilograms of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent.  Launched in April 2015, the ‘Zero Routine Flaring by 2030’ Initiative is a World Bank climate collaboration that brings together governments, oil and gas companies, and development institutions from around the world to eliminate routine flaring by 2030. Over 80 governments and organizations have joined the initiative, including the government of Saudi Arabia, which joined in December 2018. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco, the world’s largest integrated oil and gas company, wholly owned by the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia (the “Kingdom”, the “Government” or the “Selling Shareholder”), today announces its intention to proceed with an initial public offering on the Main Market of Tadawul.Saudi Aramco today announced its intention to establish the Jazan Power Joint Venture. The JV will be 46% owned by Air Products, 25% by ACWA Power, 20% by Saudi Aramco and 9% by Air Products Qudra. In addition, the Company signed seven MoUs at the Future Investment Initiative (FII) in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Technical Services, attended FII in addition to Nabil Al Nuaim, Saudi Aramco’s Chief Digital Officer, who headlined a panel discussion on how business can best leverage data to anticipate risks, improve performance and optimize operations. Senior Vice President of Technical Services, Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, reaffirmed the Company’s position, saying: “Saudi Aramco aims to promote business investment opportunities through technology across the Kingdom’s energy services sector ecosystem. The agreements signed today support the Kingdom’s plans to develop industrial zones, create jobs and attract foreign direct investment, as well as drive economic diversification.“ The MoUs represent new collaborations with companies from six countries. These include France, Norway, New Zealand, South Korea, Spain and the United States. The MoUs are intended to support Saudi Aramco’s operations and Saudi Arabia’s economic diversification strategy by increasing the efficiency of technology used in upstream, downstream and engineering services. In the long term, these agreements aim to help improve sustainability and technological efficiency throughout the value chain. The MOUs and commercial collaborations signed include:Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAt a regional meeting of oil companies to discuss methods for environmental stewardship last week, Saudi Aramco shared some of its best practices in the prevention of oil spills, and methods of environmental preservation. The First RECSO Enviro Spill Conference and Exhibition was hosted by the Regional Clean Sea Organization — a 13-member oil industry co-operative organization formed in 1972 with the objective of accomplishing a cleaner and safer environment. In delivering the keynote speech at the opening ceremony, Abdulhakim A. Al-Gouhi, vice president of Industrial Services with Saudi Aramco, called on members to collaborate to protect the pristine Gulf environment through prevention, preparedness, and response.  “We come together to demonstrate our unlimited commitment toward protecting the marine environment from any harmful effects of pollution, in general, and of oil spills in particular,” said Al-Gouhi.  He noted that Saudi Aramco demonstrated its expertise in oil spill mitigation at the height of the Gulf War in 1991, when an estimated 8 to 11 million barrels of oil were released in what is thought to be the largest oil spill in human history, and established oil spill contingency plans, response teams, training programs, and oil spill drills that put Saudi Aramco at the forefront of the industry.  But even so, added Al-Gouhi, “the need to pursue research and development in new technologies and more efficient oil spill combatting tools and equipment could not be emphasized more.” Al-Gouhi additionally noted that a major element to test readiness is by conducting drills and exercises. One such exercise was successfully conducted at the south Red Sea this year that involved all stakeholders, including government, military, and civil authorities, as well as specialized international oil response, tanker, and shipping companies. Response operations included offshore containment and recovery, shoreline cleanup, and aerial dispersant spray by Saudi Aramco. The conference included 65 speakers, and 30 exhibiting companies representing more than 20 countries. Workshops provided an opportunity for interactive discussions between presenters and delegates on key topics and new technologies for oil spill prevention, mitigation, and response.  Among the Saudi Aramco presentations was one by Andrew Regan, the Marine Department’s engineer, who delivered a presentation titled “Oil Spill — The Impact on the Sea Environment and Waste Management.” Saudi Aramco’s global oil spill response director, Muhammad A. Saber, was a panelist on a leadership panel on “Regional Challenges in Oil Spill Response.”
Ibrahim A. Al-Hilal, regional oil spill coordinator with Saudi Aramco, served as the panel moderator for a leadership panel discussing “Oil Spill Management.”  Majed Al-Khalidi, senior pollution control coordinator, chaired a technical session on "Global Policies and Regulations in Oil Spill Response." Abdullah O. Tewairqi, manager of the Marine Department, presented recognition plaques to partners and committees. Tewairqi commended members of the team, who presented papers, participated in panel discussions, and manned the booth in the exhibit area.Ras Tanura Refinery Clean Fuels Project has placed its heaviest and largest piece of equipment — a naphtha splitter column weighing 544 tons.  It took approximately three hours to complete the lift of this 65-meter high column after six weeks of site preparation and crane positioning.  After six weeks of site preparation and crane positioning, it took only three hours to complete the lift of the 65-meter high column.  For the lift, a 1,600 ton main crane was utilized together with a tailing crane with a total nominal capacity of 600 tons.  The 8-meter-diameter column required extensive coordination during transportation. This included disconnecting several overhead power cables to allow for safe passage and modifying the Jubail-Dhahran highway to avoid bridges.  The total transport from Jubail to the project site at the refinery was alternated between day and night to minimize community disruptions. It took three weeks from source to site, with more than 10 stops along the way.  The column is the main feeder to the new world’s largest Continuous Catalytic Reforming (CCR) and Isomerization Units, with a total operating capacity of 90,000 and 65,000 barrels per day, respectively. The main function of the naphtha splitter column is to split the hydrotreated naphtha into light and heavy naphtha, which is a key function to the Naphtha Hydrotreating Unit, as it controls the benzene precursors, which are then sent to the Isomerization Unit.  The objective is to prepare the feeds to downstream units to meet the acceptable level of the impurities in the feed to the new CCR and Isomerization Units. The splitter column has been awarded to a local manufacturing company in Jubail as part of the iktva program, which is targeting 70% localization by 2021. The complete manufacturing of the column took more than a year, achieving more than 2,500 safe working hours.  The project will provide facilities to support Saudi Aramco’s corporate objective of effectively supplying diesel and gasoline products that comply with the future Saudi Aramco gasoline and diesel quality specifications, as per Euro-V fuels quality standards. The new naphtha complex plants that will be installed as part of the project at the refinery, are comprised of a 138 MBD naphtha hydrotreater, a 90 MBD CCR Unit, and a 65 MBD Isomerization Unit.Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser today attended the Saudi - Russian CEO Forum hosted in Riyadh as part of the state visit of the Russian President Vladimir Putin. At the Forum, Nasser noted the growing importance of Saudi Aramco’s evolving strategic relationship with Russian companies.  After the CEO Forum, Saudi Arabia’s King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and Russia's President Vladimir Putin alongside HRH the Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, oversaw the signing of a confirmation agreement between Saudi Aramco, the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia (PIF), the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF) and Rusnano to enter into a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA) to acquire Rusnano’s 30.76% share in Novomet, a leading Russian service provider and manufacturer of high-tech electrical submersible pumps. The deal is expected to close early next year, subject to regulatory approvals and closing conditions.  Mr. Nasser, said: “Today‘s agreement is expected to enable future investments in both Saudi Arabia and Russia that come under the framework of the Saudi - Russian Energy Co-investment Platform through Saudi Aramco, PIF and RDIF, targeting to promote investments in the energy sector in both Saudi Arabia and Russia. We look forward to expanding our mutual interests in the energy sector through this important co-investment platform with Russian companies.“ Saudi Aramco also entered into 9 additional Memorandum of Understanding (MOUs) with major Russian companies as part of Saudi Aramco’s upstream strategy, which were signed with the following Russian companies: Gazprom Neft: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Gazprom Neft. The agreement aims to exchange technical knowledge for oil applications and identify mutual technical studies of interest to both companies.  Angara Service: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Angara Service for special chemicals and cleaning services with existing service providers to Saudi Aramco’s oil refineries and production sites. Chelpipe : An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Chelpipe to localize production of ball valves in Saudi Arabia through a joint venture with a local partner.  Galen: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Galen to localize fiberglass rebar.  Integra: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Integra for a manufacturing facility for downhole drilling motors, drilling tools and bottom hole assembly (BHA) components. NKT: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and NKT for submersible cable lines protectors. Technovek: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Technovek for equipment and parts for wellhead equipment.   PAO “TMK”: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and PAO “TMK” for Line Pipe and OCTG components such as drilling, casing and tubing material.   Intratool: An MOU between Saudi Aramco and Intratool to localize hot tapping, line stopping split tees, and repair features.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comInternal corrosion in pipelines is one of the most significant challenges facing Saudi Aramco on a daily basis, more than 200 attendees from Saudi Aramco organizations were told recently at a forum and exhibition. Mohammad A. Al Hatlani, general manager of Pipelines, opened the Internal Corrosion Forum, noting the cost of corrosion globally is approximately $2.5 trillion. Saudi Aramco, he added, recognizes that effective corrosion management — in conjunction with other ongoing nonmetallic materials development, deployment of new technologies, as well as best practices in inspection, detection, correction, and prevention — can significantly reduce such risks and costs. Al Hatlani said the forum provided an opportunity to enrich knowledge and exchange ideas and best practices with a variety of organizations and subject matter experts — both within Saudi Aramco and externally. “I have seen an increase in participation in these types of events across different organizations. We can see the high level of interest among all of the participants,” said Al Hatlani. A series of presentations explored in detail some of the most pressing areas of pipeline integrity. Effective management of corrosion is critical to the health of the oil and gas industry. According to the National Association of Corrosion Engineers, the total annual cost of corrosion in the oil and gas production industry is estimated to be $1.372 billion — including $589 million in surface pipeline and facility costs, $463 million annually in downhole tubing expenses, and another $320 million in capital expenditures related to corrosion. A number of presentations were given on key topics, including: Praising the forum’s ability to effectively engage participants, Al Hatlani highlighted the importance of the event. “It really focuses on one of the most important aspects of our business, which is pipeline integrity. We really pay a lot of attention to that because it is essential for safe, reliable, environmentally friendly, and cost-effective operations,” he said. Al Hatlani added that internal corrosion mitigation is a key factor in pipeline integrity specifically, and the company’s integrity programs in general. He further added that interaction and engagement on the topic would continue beyond the event itself. “We will get feedback from the participants so that we can improve the forum. Also, we will summarize the content and the issues we have discussed and the solutions proposed,” Al Hatlani added. “Pipelines, Distribution, and Terminals (PD&T) is playing a very important role because we cover everything across the Kingdom and all of the way to the terminals where we distribute the company’s products to the rest of the world,” he said.At the Science and Technology in Society (STS) forum held Monday in Kyoto, Japan, Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Saudi Aramco’s chief technology officer, said “the challenge for our generation is to achieve net zero greenhouse gas emissions, within this century.” The STS forum, an annual international high level platform for leaders to facilitate discussions across government, industry, and academia to jointly explore opportunities arising from science and technology, was attended by more than 1,400 scientists, business leaders, and policymakers from 80 countries and regions, including 13 Nobel laureates.Itcovers a wide range of topics, including energy, life science, medicine, information and communications technology, and education. In his speech during a session with the theme “Lights and Shadows of Energy and Environment” Al-Khowaiter pointed out that in the past century, plentiful, affordable energy — mostly in the form of fossil fuels — powered productivity growth and development around the world, contributing to a historically unprecedented improvement of quality of life, and a doubling of life expectancies. “In the past 25 years alone, affordable energy helped lift a billion people out of poverty. That is the light of energy, which like the lightbulb, we tend to take for granted,” Al-Khowaiter said. “Today we face the dual challenge of meeting the world’s growing energy needs in a reliable and affordable manner, while ensuring a sustainable environment for our future generations.” The concept of a circular carbon economy offers a new way of approaching climate goals that values all options and encourages all efforts to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions.
Al-Khowaiter emphasized that this is where the roles of science and technology are essential with the involvement of not only scientists and enterprises, but also government for solutions to be deployed on a large scale. Japan presides over this year’s G20 and takes a leadership role in promoting carbon recycling.Attendees of the seventh Global HSE Conference and Exhibition in Bahrain last week were told that “a strong foundation of health, safety, and environmental (HSE) protection” is a must for companies such as Saudi Aramco to maintain its social license to operate. While finding the right balance of those factors can appear at times to be “elusive”, Muhammad M. Al Saggaf, senior vice president of Operations and Business Services with Saudi Aramco, said a committed effort throughout the oil and gas industry is achievable. “I believe anything is within our reach if we fully commit ourselves, with dedication and resilience,” Al Saggaf said in delivering the keynote address at the event. And the resilience that is required, said Al Saggaf, was never more evident than last month when the company’s facilities in Abqaiq and Khurais came under attack. “Ultimately, fires that were intended to break us revealed a company far more resilient than anyone could have imagined,” he noted. Al Saggaf said Saudi Aramco’s resilience is built upon three cornerstones — “our dedicated and committed people … our vast hydrocarbon resources, and our world-class infrastructure.” The profound challenges that major oil and gas companies face each day demand “Efficiency, Resilience, and Sustainability,” Al Saggaf noted in highlighting the theme of the conference. Al Saggaf talked about three co-centric circles of HSE, starting with safety, which he said is key to the sustainability of business success. “We must begin with safety, because this is the field of the most direct impact on our employees,” said Al Saggaf.  “But safety is more than an investment. I believe that the safety of our employees is a contract with them — whether it is explicit or implicit — that we keep the workplace safe, not only because it is good for business, but because it is our moral obligation.”  Another component of that moral obligation, he said, is the well-being of employees and their dependents. “The challenges are complex to achieve the right balance between quality and affordability … but smart companies must explore and innovate solutions, and we must be drivers of that change within our organizations.” Turning his attention to the environment, Al Saggaf said, “This tests our social responsibility toward our families, our people, and our ecosystem.” He cited Saudi Aramco examples of where that commitment is paying off. “Decades of investment in our well management capabilities and technologies have resulted in Saudi Aramco having the lowest upstream carbon intensity of any of the world’s major producers. At the same time, our methane intensity is also one of the lowest in the industry.” Al Saggaf said a collective strategy toward achieving the right balance between continued economic developments and protecting the planet must be based on several factors, including: “And we must do all of this with a high degree of transparency and openness, because the world is watching.” Technology, said Al Saggaf, is the key to solving most challenging problems faced with regard to HSE. “But we must be the drivers — the adaptors and the adopters — of the technologies best suited for our businesses. “The breakthroughs of the Fourth Industrial Revolution are redefining, in real time, what is possible. But these breakthroughs require vision, and they require investment.” Al Saggaf told attendees of the conference that sharing experiences, knowledge, and best practices is important to finding the right balance on all matters pertaining to HSE. Saudi Aramco served as a co-sponsor of the four-day event, which brought together more than 5,000 professionals representing over 150 companies from more than 30 countries.Good morning, ladies and gentlemen.  It is a pleasure to join you today at one of our industry’s premier venues to deliberate on current energy issues of strategic importance to our world. Let me first congratulate my friend Ben van Beurden for his well-deserved Energy Executive of the Year award. Congratulations Ben.
 Let me also stress that this event offered further proof of how important oil and our industry remain to world energy and the global economy.
That would have affected many industries, companies, the global economy and more importantly consumers across the world, because of the unique position and scale of Saudi Aramco.   Allow me to begin by addressing last month’s brazen attacks on some of Saudi Aramco’s key oil facilities, given the continued public and media interest in our recovery efforts. Thanks to the tireless efforts of our people, their creativity, and the high degree to which our supply and service chains have been localized in recent years, the most urgent work essential to production restoration was prioritized.  It was expedited and completed, beating our own target by about a week.  That took us back to pre-attack production levels.  We are also on track to regain our maximum sustained capacity, or MSC, of 12 million bpd by the end of November, as we announced.  That too might come earlier than the target.   This rapid turnaround has surprised many, but our people are known for extraordinary performance when they are put to the test—and I am proud of the men and women of Aramco for the way they rose to this tough challenge. Additionally, the optimum flexibility and planned fail-safe redundancies built into our facilities and our vast production network proved instrumental in accelerating the restoration work. The sharp oil market reaction following the attacks on our facilities reflected understandable supply concerns.  But Saudi Aramco’s rapid response and the confidence our various stakeholders have in our ability to quickly restore production helped to calm the global oil market.  In the absence of those capabilities, and had the market believed the supply loss would be longer term, the reaction would have been much steeper and more sustained.  So make no mistake, ladies and gentlemen: These attacks not only struck Saudi Aramco and Saudi Arabia, but also targeted the global economy and indeed the wider global community.   That means an absence of international resolve to take concrete action may embolden the attackers and indeed put the world’s energy security at greater risk. Saudi Aramco, for its part, remains committed to ensuring reliable supply and access to energy the world needs, which I believe is key to the future health of our industry.  However, we need to engage with all stakeholders in our industry’s future regarding the linkages to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change, which are of critical importance to all of us. In my view, it is appropriate to continue this dialogue at this conference by examining global approaches to managing climate change.  

In light of last month’s discussions at the United Nations Climate Summit, it is useful to ask: Is the current approach to reducing greenhouse gas emissions producing acceptable results?  In my judgment, the answer is “no”—and here is why.

Simply speaking, thus far the world has focused on just two fixes: replacing hydrocarbons with renewables in the power sector, and on electrifying light duty road passenger transport via electric vehicles.  

The serious flaw in this approach is its exceptionally narrow focus, as electricity accounts for roughly a quarter of global greenhouse gas emissions and light duty passenger vehicles only about eight percent.  

In other words, the focus on only about one-third of total GHG emissions.  And that is why I strongly believe we need to think differently. 

In my view, we could consider four key strategies that have the potential to make the global effort much more effective.

First, we must go beyond electric power generation and light duty passenger transport, broadening our focus and paying attention to all the other economic sectors that jointly account for about two-thirds of global greenhouse gas emissions. 

Second, most clean R&D and technology funding by governments is currently focused on emerging energy sources, and this must be extended to the existing energy sources that will be with us for a long time to come.    

Third, we should concentrate on moving toward a Circular Economy: an economic system focused on the elimination of waste and the sustainable use of resources, which could be characterized by the three Rs of Reducing, Reusing and Recycling.  

This compares to a traditional Linear Economy in which raw materials are mined or extracted, processed, and turned into products, but then are simply thrown away after one use rather than being remade, repaired or recycled.  

Carbon and a wide variety of other materials and resources can be similarly transformed into circular systems.  In other words, we need to “close the loop” to the maximum extent possible.

And fourth, let us take advantage of the greenhouse-gas reduction synergies across economic sectors offered by the circular economy, which will be lost if we work on various sectors in isolation, or focus only on a selected few.

Ladies and gentlemen, in my view, this more comprehensive approach is vital, because looking at the global energy mix for the foreseeable future, I see both new energy sources and existing sources contributing in parallel.  

Without a doubt, oil and gas will be here for many decades to come.  But there can also be no question that climate change is among the most significant challenges facing humanity. 

At the recent World Energy Congress in Abu Dhabi, I talked about society’s five key demands for the future of energy, which are: resource abundance, safe production, reliability, affordability, and cleaner supplies.  

I also stated that our industry recognizes the need to deliver on those demands, is making urgent efforts to further reduce carbon emissions associated with oil and gas, and has made that objective one of our industry’s top priorities.

For its part, Saudi Aramco is working both individually and jointly with others in the petroleum industry to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.  In fact, Aramco has a long history of reducing all emissions, including greenhouse gases, even well before climate change was identified as a global challenge.  

For example, our Master Gas System was built in the 1970s, and by eliminating flaring, the CO2 reduction through this system alone has averaged some 100 million tons every year.

Looking at climate-sustainability KPIs within our gates, we are proud that today the carbon intensity of our upstream operations is among the lowest in the industry: 10 kilograms of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil produced.  

Based on third-party verification, last year our intensity of highly harmful methane gas was just 0.06 percent, also one of the lowest levels in the industry.  In addition, we are emphasizing cogeneration in our operations, achieving more than 70 percent thermal efficiency.

With more than 2.2 million mangrove seedlings already planted through an Aramco-sponsored program, we have also launched a campaign to plant one million trees across the Kingdom to absorb carbon and enhance biodiversity, while also prioritizing water conservation as well as its treatment and reuse.

Outside our gates, in the area of end-use oil applications, we are working on a variety of low-carbon technologies. 

These range from the higher-mileage and lower-carbon integrated engine-fuel systems of the future; carbon capture utilization and storage (CCUS); beneficial uses of carbon; and clean hydrogen from oil as a key energy source to fuel a potential future hydrogen economy. 

At an industry level, I’m pleased to say that the CEO-led Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, of which Aramco is a founding member, has made great strides in delivering effective solutions for a sustainable low-emissions future. 

Ladies and gentlemen, in summary I believe both existing and new energy sources will be needed to satisfy our planet’s needs for energy and economic development, while concurrently promoting climate protection.  

However, the world’s current carbon management strategies are too narrowly focused.  Instead we need to make GHG reduction efforts across all economic sectors, to direct clean energy R&D and technology funding toward both existing and new energy sources, and adopt the circular economy model. 

Our industry is fully committed to further lightening the greenhouse gas footprint of oil and gas. 

We are backing our words with concrete action.  By the same token, I urge governments around the world to work closely with us to develop pragmatic policy solutions to deliver ample, reliable, safe, affordable and at the same time sustainable energy to the world. 

I’m confident that with all stakeholders working together toward rational solutions, this goal—while challenging—is achievable.  Thank you.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe future of geophysics and how the world’s surface and subsurface is viewed increasingly depends on the speed of technology to gather, process, and interpret data to make energy exploration business decisions.  More than 7,000 geoscientists gathered at the Society of Exploration Geophysicists’ (SEG) International Exposition and 89th annual meeting in San Antonio in mid-September for an overview of the latest technological innovations in geophysics, highlighting the application of artificial intelligence through machine learning and data analytics.  Other sessions were devoted to novel acquisition methodologies such as distributed acoustic sensing and advances in passive and electromagnetic methods used in gathering seismic data. The conference, featuring 90 sessions and 20 post-convention workshops, struck a balance between land and marine seismic topics, addressing both conventional and unconventional, as well as shale reservoir characterization challenges. Keynote speaker Walter Guidroz, coordinator of the Energy Resources Program with the U.S. Geological Survey, noted how play assessments have changed given the advent of unconventionals. The federal science agency maintains a multidisciplinary staff with an expanded scope of geophysical contributions to renewables, including geothermal, hydro, solar, and wind. “Most challenging now is how we make sense of the huge amounts of data we collect, how we write meaningful algorithms to simulate the complex factors in predicting reservoir properties,” said Saleh A. Al Maghlouth, manager of the Geophysical Imaging Department in Exploration with Saudi Aramco. While data becomes available faster than ever before, its usage still relies on understanding and interpretation, he added.  With significant industry contributions to land seismic acquisition and processing from our Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) Geology and Geophysics Technology teams and researchers throughout the company’s global R&D network, this year’s SEG accepted more than 20 Aramco technical papers and posters as well as a post-conference workshop “Deep Learning-based 3-D EM Inversion for Reservoir Monitoring.” Along with a titanium level sponsorship, Aramco sponsored SEG’s Evolve — a program designed to transition recent graduates through learning and collaboration with a real-world data exercise.  On the exhibition floor, visitors were treated to in-booth presentations and a look at science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) community involvement with a video featuring the Aramco sponsored Geology Camp — a 17-day field experience for science teachers conducted by Texas A&M University.  Recruiting staff were on-site for potential career candidates in addition to Houston-based Aramco personnel from Upstream and Public Affairs.The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), a group of leading energy companies, recently introduced new measures to address climate challenges at its fifth annual conference in New York and said it was making progress curbing methane emissions. Among the new efforts is one to spur large-scale investments in carbon capture, use and storage (CCUS) systems, with an early goal of doubling the amount of carbon currently stored globally before 2030. CCUS is a central part of efforts to achieve net zero emissions.  “We are committed to helping to meet society’s lower carbon goals while reliably meeting the energy needs of billions of people for decades to come and leading at the cutting edge of technology,” said Saudi Aramco chief technology officer Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, who participated in working sessions at the event. “Our involvement with the OGCI demonstrates this commitment.” OGCI also said its members are committed to reducing the amount of methane and carbon emissions in their upstream oil and gas operations, and supporting appropriate governmental policies that assign a value to carbon as a way to lower emissions. Members have already reduced their collective methane intensity by 9% and are on track to meet a cumulative 20% reduction by 2025, the group said. OGCI is now working on a target to reduce its collective average carbon intensity as well.  Reducing carbon intensity involves actions such as improving energy efficiency, minimizing flaring, upgrading facilities, and co-generation. Saudi Aramco, a founding member of OGCI, has been a leader in lowering carbon intensity from oil and gas operations, from the wellhead to the refinery gate. Saudi Arabia has the lowest carbon intensity of any major oil producing country, at just 4.6 grams of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent per megajoule, according to a Stanford University-led study published in the journal Science. Also, based on third-party verification of our greenhouse gas emissions, our methane intensity last year was just .06%, which is also one of the lowest in the industry.
OGCI members have set up a venture capital fund with more than $1 billion that has invested in startup companies that are developing, scaling, and deploying technologies that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. It has made seven new investments in the past year in companies with impactful technologies that span the energy value chain. Fifteen companies are in the portfolio. OGCI is also starting a Kickstarter crowdfunding program to facilitate putting CCUS technologies into operation in industrial hubs in the U.S., U.K., Norway, the Netherlands, and China. More broadly, OGCI is working with 11 countries supporting the Clean Energy Ministerial CCUS initiative to create a global commercial carbon storage industry at the scale needed to meet the goal of the Paris Agreement. OGCI has also joined the Natural Climate Solutions Vision Initiative convened by the World Economic Forum and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development Saudi Aramco yesterday (Friday, September 20) organized a comprehensive media tour for more than 80 international, regional and local journalists representing various top tier media organizations at two of its oil & gas processing facilities which were attacked one week ago. The media tour involved visits to the attack sites in Khurais and Abqaiq where the media delegation were given a first-hand look at the damaged components of the facilities. The tour enabled Saudi Aramco to brief the media delegation on its rapid response and resilience in the face of the attacks which shows its preparedness in terms of crisis and emergency management plan. The courage, dedication and proficiency of Saudi Aramco employees who responded to the crisis also prevented injuries. Employees of Khurais and Abqaiq present at the tour also reiterated to journalists what Saudi Aramco’s President and Chief Executive Amin H. Nasser has stated regarding the company’s rapid and creative efforts to restore its production capacity in record time following the attacks. Production at Khurais resumed within 24 hours of the attack; Abqaiq production resumed to 2 million barrels per day soon after, and production of 5.7 million barrels per day will be restored by the end of September. Saudi Aramco was also able to ensure that not a single shipment to its international customers has been missed or canceled as a result of the attacks, and the Company will continue to fulfil its mission of providing the energy the Kingdom and the world needs.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comA new collaboration between the Power Systems Renewables Department (PRSD) and Unconventional Resources (UR) is not only saving costs while creating value, but is also reducing Saudi Aramco’s environmental footprint in both energy supply and demand. The organizations are collaborating by using green energy applications and technology in both ongoing and upcoming UR projects. Designed to ensure in-company projects reach maximum efficiency, the effort is focused on using smart solutions and demand-side management, as well as distributed generation and renewable resources to meet its goals. To do this, PRSD is deploying renewable energy technology across applications — both off-the grid and on-the-grid connected solutions — and in its facilities, including office buildings, industrial facilities, oil and gas production wells, bulk plants, and others. Over the years, technological improvements and decreasing costs in the energy storage field have made the use of solar photovoltaics (PV) and off-the-grid solar photovoltaic-energy storage systems preferable to more traditional forms of energy at industrial sites. In line with this development, PRSD is using off-grid renewable energy systems as a less expensive power supply option. Used on a case-by-case basis, the solutions are most often designed for remote area facilities. And to best identify, promote, and enable deployment of renewable energy deployment throughout Saudi Aramco, PRSD has updated the GIs and Engineering Standards to encourage their use. Meanwhile, UR is consistently looking to operate and maintain its facilities in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. By teaming up with PRSD to power remote gas wells and main line isolation valve stations with solar off-grid systems, it achieves this while also optimizing electrical loads and the use of modern technology solutions. UR and PRSD collaboratively are establishing a long-term business relationship to promote the use of solar off-grid systems, which prove to be less expensive and more environmentally friendly than the use of transferring power by overhead transmissions lines. A good example of this is with the groundbreaking development of the company’s first green powered autonomous gas well. The recent commissioning of the off-grid solar PV and battery powered gas well in Wa’ad Al-Shamal will be a catalyst for future development of off-grid systems companywide. The system, which was commissioned on July 24, has a five-year battery life cycle, was completed safely and ahead of schedule, with the transformation of the well’s power system the first of 11 to be applied in the area. And its capacity is notable, as it supports a large electrical load created by use of blower motors, methanol injection pumps, HVAC, and other systems — all supported by solar PV and battery systems. By using off-grid solar PV and battery systems, we can effectively power remote unconventional gas wells with enough storage to operate them for five consecutive days — even without any sunlight. Deploying these systems at each well site in Wa’ad Al-Shamal could provide significant savings. But the savings go beyond costs. Using off-grid solar PV-battery systems increases the reliability of the power supply to our critical facilities. Also, the systems are mobile and can be re-used at different well sites. Meanwhile, the systems can be deployed faster and can help us meet and even exceed project schedule needs. Also, because the systems don’t rely on a power line grid, they have less downtime, allowing the company to more consistently maximize gas production. The team from PRSD and UR is currently working with solar vendors to develop standardized solar/PV models of 3, 5, 7, and 10 kilowatts so these models will be available for use in the majority of solar applications across Saudi Aramco. The models will also be easily relocatable to other sites, as required. Overall, solar off-grid systems are an attractive and reliable power generation solution that fits the needs in Wa’ad Al-Shamal well. The cost avoidance and life cycle cost savings by implementing such renewable energy solutions are significant and will add value to Saudi Aramco and its projects in the future. Furthermore, the deployment of renewable resources in the area will reduce greenhouse gas emissions, save fuel for export, and support long-term prosperity in line with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 and Saudi Aramco’s goals.Aramco Asia recently organized a series of events in the Asia-Pacific region to promote Saudi Aramco’s iktva localization program and attract Asian investors and suppliers to invest in the Kingdom. Featuring speakers from Saudi government entities such as the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority, Saudi Arabian Industrial Investments Company, King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), and the National Industrial Development and Logistics Program (NIDLP), two forums were held in Tokyo and Shanghai in July and August, respectively, with a third forum planned in New Delhi in December.  Aramco Asia president Anwar Al Hejazi emphasized the importance of these forums, noting, “Aramco Asia is committed to support iktva by working with key suppliers across Asia to attract investments into the Kingdom and enhance the development of a diverse, sustainable, and globally competitive energy sector in Saudi Arabia.” A one-day Suppliers Forum held in late August in Shanghai — China’s financial hub where Aramco Asia’s strategic procurement and logistic business is based — attracted more than 300 participants representing more than 200 government and semi-government agencies, industrial associations, and companies in China to explore iktva localization opportunities and investment in Saudi Arabia.  The event was also attended by Mohammed Al-Otaish, Commercial counselor at the Royal Embassy of Saudi Arabia in China.
Speaking to Chinese suppliers at the event, Aramco Asia-China country manager Fahad Al Othman underscored the importance of the forum.  “I strongly believe that we need to work closely in the next couple of years to consolidate our investment relations,” Al Othman said. “I think that further alignment between Saudi Vision 2030 and China’s Belt and Road Initiative presents to us an unprecedented opportunity to cement our investment ties and ensure Chinese investors to have fair, favorable, and transparent treatment in the Kingdom.”  At the forum, the company signed two separate agreements with the China Overseas Development Association and TEDA Investment Holding Company Limited to collaborate to advance the iktva program and explore investment opportunities in the Kingdom by bringing potential Chinese investors to Saudi Arabia. Under the theme of Issho-ni, the Japanese word for together, the Tokyo forum held in early July brought together a total of 160 delegates from more than 90 local companies. 
Aramco Asia-Japan representative director Omar Al Amudi remarked that Saudi Aramco has a proven track record as the leading energy company in the world, dealing with companies around the globe. “Japanese companies have been an integral part of the Saudi Aramco story, from building our most complex facilities to supplying the most advanced technologies. Engagement in iktva has become more important for us to deepen our relationship and solidify our commitment with you all,” Al Amudi said. Abdulrahman Al Hatlan, head of Aramco Asia’s Strategic Procurement and Logistics Department, emphasized the importance of such forums, noting that promoting iktva and attracting key Asian suppliers to invest in Saudi Arabia is a key priority. “These two suppliers forums, along with the one planned in India later this year, serve as a platform to strengthen our ties with Asian suppliers and promote to them the available opportunities and incentives in the Kingdom,” said Al Hatlan.  Positioned as one major ingredient of the Company’s drive to enhance iktva, these pan-Asia events are specifically tailored for local investors and suppliers, and all parties are encouraged to share ideas and focus on collaboration for mutual prosperity. Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) has completed the acquisition of Shell Saudi Arabia Refining Limited’s (Shell) 50% interest of the SASREF joint venture in Jubail Industrial City, in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for $631 million. Completion follows receipt of all necessary regulatory consents. The acquisition supports Saudi Aramco’s plan to increase the complexity and capacity of its refineries, as part of its long-term downstream growth strategy. For Shell, the sale is part of an ongoing effort integrating its refining portfolio with Shell Trading hubs and chemicals operations.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco President & CEO Amin Nasser said Tuesday that the Company’s production capacity, suspended earlier due to terror attacks on its plants at Abqaiq and Khurais, would be fully restored by the end of September. Speaking to media in Jeddah during a news conference with HRH Prince Abdulaziz Bin Salman, Minister of Energy, and HE Yasir Rumayyan, Chairman of Saudi Aramco, Mr. Nasser said: “These synchronized attacks were timed to create maximum damage to our facilities and operations. The rapid response and resilience demonstrated in the face of such adversity shows the Company’s preparedness to deal with threats aimed at sabotaging Aramco’s supply of energy to the world.” Commending the work of the emergency response teams consisting of firefighters, operations, and security personnel in coordination with government agencies, Mr. Nasser said: “I am enormously proud of the courage, dedication and proficiency of our people who ensured there were no injuries.” During the news conference, it was disclosed that production at Khurais resumed 24 hours after the attack. Meanwhile, Mr. Nasser stated that production at Abqaiq is currently 2 million barrels per day and its entire output is expected to be restored to prior rates by the end of September. “We have a hard-earned reputation for nearly 100 percent reliability in terms of meeting our international customers’ requirements and we have defended that,” he told journalists from Saudi and international media. The Company adjusted deliveries and shipments to customers by drawing on inventories and offering additional crude production from other fields. “Not a single shipment to an international customer has been or will be missed or canceled as a result of these attacks. We have proven that we are operationally resilient and have confirmed our reputation as the world’s leading supplier,” Mr. Nasser said. The Company has met its commitments to its International customers, even in challenging situations, including past Gulf conflicts.” The subject of the Company’s Initial Public Offering was also discussed during the news conference and Mr. Nasser had the following message: “We have said we are ready and will proceed with the IPO when our shareholder takes the decision.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comReducing sand movement and desertification is a key component to Saudi Aramco’s initiative to plant one million trees, whereas KhPD will plant 15,000 native trees by the end of 2019. Reaching out of the desert sands along many of the site’s roads, rows of enduring Zizyphus spina-christi acacia (Sidr), Acacia gerrardii (talh) and Prosopis koelziana trees defy the dry conditions, deftly sprouting life-giving leaves, branches, and roots. As well as enhancing native biodiversity, the trees sequester carbon, control sand drift onto the roads, and create natural shade. Khurais is evaluating the impact of different tree plantation technologies on water consumption, growth rate, and cost-effectiveness in two phases. During phase one, implemented in 2015, a super absorbent polymer technology was tested on 3,400 trees, generating up to 50% savings in irrigation water consumption.  The positive outcome of phase one encouraged KhPD to work with Aramco's Environmental Protection Department and EXPEC ARC to proceed with phase two, which involves piloting four different technologies on 400 trees, comparing water conservation and growth rate performances, with the trial outcomes expected by the end of 2019.     “Khurais biodiversity initiative demonstrates the unwavering commitment toward environmental sustainability and it will remain in our organization’s DNA as part of our national interests, corporate drives, and social responsibilities,” said Fahad M. Al Abdul Kareem, general manager of Southern Area Oil Producing. “This includes deploying technologies to support water conservation measures, such as the plantation technology trials taking place at Khurais.”Saudi Aramco emergency crews contained fires at its plants in Abqaiq and Khurais, as a result of terrorist attacks with projectiles. These attacks resulted in production suspension of 5.7 million barrels of crude oil per day. After visiting the incident locations, Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO, said: “We are gratified that there were no injuries. I would like to thank all teams that responded timely to the incidents and brought the situation under control. Work is underway to restore production and a progress update will be provided in around 48 hours.” The company will release additional information as it becomes available. For updates, visit our website at www.aramco.com or contact International.media@aramco.com  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco Technologies Company (AramcoTech), and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) on Monday officially opened the Nonmetallic Innovation Center (NIC) — a research center focused on innovation and advancing the use of nonmetallic industrial applications.  The launch of NIC will play an important role in advancing nonmetallic solutions across industries. The center is based at TWI in Cambridge and will develop technologies for new nonmetallic pipeline solutions.  Nonmetallics are increasingly deployed across multiple industries including oil and gas, construction, automotive, packaging and renewable. They combine several benefits as they are corrosion-resistant, lightweight and durable. “Nonmetallic materials, especially in the oil and gas industry, are key to maintaining the integrity and safe and reliable operation of our facilities and providing protection from corrosion damage,” said Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, chief technology officer with Saudi Aramco. Al-Khowaiter told attendees at the inauguration that the cost of corrosion across all sectors worldwide was estimated the costs due to maintenance, repairs, and shutdowns are approximately $2.5 trillion.   “Such risks and costs can be significantly reduced by using corrosion management best practices, including the deployment of nonmetallic materials where applicable. These materials have demonstrated outstanding corrosion resistance due their chemical nature that does not support the electrochemical processes driving corrosion,” he noted.  “By bringing together TWI, AramcoTech, and ADNOC to set up NIC, we can be assured of producing industry-led research for the complete supply chain from research and development to production,” said NIC program director Mihalis Kazilas.  “NIC combines academia and industry so that there is a continuous chain between universities producing high-level research and industries that require academic-level analysis for real world applications,” Kazilas said. “We are delighted to be part of this important initiative,” said Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, chief technology officer with Saudi Aramco. “The center will promote the utilization of advanced polymeric materials by conducting research that addresses challenges in their development and use,” Al-Khowaiter said. “This initiative is part of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to leverage our extensive hydrocarbon resources and technology development capabilities to deliver solutions that meet the world’s needs in a sustainable way.” Dr. Alan Nelson, chief technology officer with ADNOC, said, “Nonmetallic solutions are continuing to reshape industries around the world. “From cost-efficient and durable pipelines to lightweight car designs, this technology has abundant science and engineering uses. In line with our Oil and Gas 4.0 mission, ADNOC is dedicated to leading and advancing this technology. Accelerating growth in new nonmetallic applications also creates new markets for crude and refined products. We are excited to partner with TWI and AramcoTech to help drive cutting-edge nonmetallic solutions for the oil and gas industry and beyond,” Nelson said. Al-Khowaiter called for closer interactions with manufacturers and research centers to expand collaborations — inviting key players in the area to the join the center as research sponsors. The inauguration also included a panel discussion on the “Future of Plastic and Composite Pipeline Technologies” with representatives from TWI, AramcoTech, 
ADNOC, Baker Hughes, and Soluforce. NIC is a part of the Private Technology Innovation Partnerships initiative at TWI, working to address technology priorities, fostering open innovation, and commercialization of technology with sponsors and supply chain.  The center conducts a research program that covers Technology Readiness Levels 1 through 9, with partners being drawn from leading academic institutions, research centers, and composite material manufacturers.Your Royal Highnesses, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning.  I would like to thank our Emirati hosts for their hospitality; and the World Energy Council for organizing yet another outstanding event. Throughout our history, our competitive edge can be summarized in four core attributes: resource abundance, safe production, reliable supply, and affordability.  But meeting society’s expectations of sustainable energy will require a fifth.  Quite simply, our products need to be much cleaner.  This will be my main focus this morning.  But let me start with the undeniable link between our first four attributes and global economic development. To begin with, by ensuring access to ample energy, our industry continues to power economies and lift billions out of poverty. Next, despite a variety of challenges, by making safe production and reliable supply the cornerstone of everything we do, we are trusted by our customers around the world.   Then there is affordability, and our industry truly appreciates its importance for consumers in both developed and developing nations.  But preserving our competitive advantages requires constant vigilance. Despite great progress, roughly one billion people still lack access to reliable electricity, and most of them live in sub-Saharan Africa. Meanwhile, close to three billion people still rely primarily on unclean biomass, wood, and coal for their cooking needs, with more deaths each year from indoor pollution than HIV-Aids and Malaria combined.  And with Africa’s population alone set to triple by the end of the century to over four billion people, one thing is clear: acute energy poverty will remain a huge challenge. It would be inhumane to ignore the issue, wish it away, or dismiss our industry’s central role in tackling it.  We must also continuously remind all our stakeholders that we are a global industry at the cutting-edge of science, technology, engineering, and logistics, supported by a complex, global supply chain. Even when we have genuine breakthrough moments, they take time and massive investments to commercialize and roll-out across the global energy network. In addition, all energy transitions (including this one) take decades, with many challenges along the road.  Certainly, we support the growing contribution that alternatives are making to meet rising global energy demand. But many governments are adopting energy policies that do not appear to consider all the complex aspects of global energy; the long-term nature of our business; and the need for orderly transitions… …policies that seem to assume there are quick and easy answers to the many challenges alternatives face.  …policies that also seem to assume rapid electrification of transport, overlooking the issue of clean electricity and a life-cycle measurement of greenhouse gas emissions…  …and policies that will cost tens of trillions of dollars, with the burden often falling on those who can least afford it…  We have already seen the impact of what I call a ‘Crisis of Perception’ on long-term investments; and if it continues supply shortfalls will follow as night follows day. That would hurt the competitiveness of national economies; threaten their energy security; and, potentially, create social disruptions (even in developed nations) by making energy less affordable.   The world can no longer afford such policy miscalculations. We need a major awareness campaign to remind stakeholders and energy users why oil and gas are still so essential. And since oil and gas will be at the heart of the global energy mix for decades to come, we need regulators to be policy holistic and technology agnostic. 
 
So there is plenty of work ahead of us just to sustain our traditional strengths. But the world still turns, and our industry’s ability to turn with it is crucial.    Two hundred years ago, for example, in places like the United States and Europe, many people used indoor lamps fueled by oil from whale fat. But by the mid-1800s, following the discovery of oil, kerosene became the lighting fuel of choice.  The journalists and analysts of the day were probably going wild about peak whale demand! Kerosene was then challenged by electricity, putting the entire petroleum industry at risk.  But once gasoline was recognized as a fuel source for transport – not just as a waste product – we secured our own future and transformed the whole world.   I believe we are at a similar turning point today. In particular, we have heard, loud and clear, the call from stakeholders and society at large for cleaner energy.  The good news is that we are not starting from scratch. For example, at Saudi Aramco, our Master Gas System has ended associated gas flaring, eliminating about 100 million metric tons of CO2 equivalent, every year since it was established in the 1970s.  Our upstream carbon intensity in the Kingdom – from well to refinery gate – is one of the lowest in the world at about 10 kilograms of CO2 equivalent per barrel of oil equivalent. Meanwhile, based on third party verification of our greenhouse gas emissions, our methane intensity last year was just 0.06%, which is also one of the lowest in the industry. This is especially important given that methane gas is 80 times more harmful to global warming in the first two decades after its release compared with CO2. High-impact achievements like these, together with our long focus on sustainability and environmental stewardship, mean we have a good story to tell. But these are primarily stories of success inside our gates.   Is that enough to meet society’s demands? The simple answer is “no”.  The world faces an incredible climate challenge and we need a bold response to match. In my view, that means the entire industry must come together around a new mission beyond our gates of making oil and gas much cleaner across the full spectrum of end-use applications.  And make it our most urgent priority. Again, our industry has already made progress. In the EU, for example, over the past 30 years, there have been dramatic reductions in conventional pollutants.  Carbon monoxide from road transport has fallen by 88%; non-methane volatile organic compounds by 89%; and sulfur oxides by 99%. As for CO2 emissions, on average, new passenger cars in the EU-27 emitted about 185 grams per kilometer in 1995.   They are targeted to be roughly half those levels by 2021, thanks in part to our industry’s work with the automotive industry. But all this still leaves a massive task ahead if we are to meet society’s expectations.  That is why, at Saudi Aramco, we are working hard on a range of technologies with transformative potential beyond our gates.  This includes: However, this new mission is a shared industry responsibility to our stakeholders, beyond generating long-term value for shareholders. Our concerted, accelerated, and visible response in all sectors should reflect that – especially collective investment in practical solutions.  For example, members of our industry’s Oil and Gas Climate Initiative have jointly allocated more than one billion dollars to lower the carbon footprint of the energy and industrial sectors.  Other, complementary approaches, especially coalitions with partners beyond our industry, should also be considered. Whatever the framework, it needs to be a comprehensive, industry-led effort, it needs to move fast, and it must articulate clear, long-term carbon management strategies that give our stakeholders sufficient confidence in our programs.  Because there is no limit to our industry’s potential if we can meet society’s demand for ultra-clean energy. Ladies and Gentlemen, there is so much for our industry to be proud of.  Especially the hard work all of us have done on conventional emissions and carbon management inside our gates. But by coming together to play a transformative role beyond our gates, and making it our top priority, we can offer all five of the core attributes needed in future energy…   This is a mission-critical moment. And at this latest turning point in our history we must, once again, lead the turn. Thank you.  Aramco is expanding its downstream business at home as well as in new markets, particularly in Asia, in its efforts to become the largest integrated energy firm. As part of its expansion plan, Aramco has moved to a new and bigger office in Singapore at OUE Bayfront.  Occupying 28,665 square feet of prime office space with more than 180 workstations, Aramco’s new office houses three business entities — Aramco Asia-Singapore, Aramco Trading Singapore, and S-OIL Singapore — under one roof. Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, senior vice president of Downstream, inaugurated the new office, accompanied by Ahmed A. Al-Subaey, vice president of Marketing, Sales, and Supply Planning, Ibrahim Q. Al-Buainain, president and CEO of Aramco Trading, Ziad T. Al-Murshed, vice president of International Operations, Anwar A. Al-Hejazi, president of Aramco Asia, and Nader A. Al-Arfaj, managing director of Aramco Asia-Singapore.  “In line with our plans to expand refining operations and petrochemical output, with a focus on China, India, and Southeast Asia, Aramco has significantly expanded its presence in Singapore in recent years with the expansion of the Aramco Asia-Singapore office and the setup of Aramco’s first international trading office in Singapore,” said Al-Judaimi: “Our new expanded office in Singapore underlines the importance of Singapore as a strategic location and positions Aramco well for future growth and expansion in the Asia Pacific region.” Singapore is the leading oil trading hub in Asia (third largest in the world after New York and London) and is among the world’s five largest refining centers, with its chemicals and energy industry within the global top 10. Besides Aramco Asia-Singapore, Aramco Trading Singapore and S-OIL Singapore, Singapore is also home to a world leading synthetic rubber company ARLANXEO — a wholly owned subsidiary of Saudi Aramco.  The inauguration ceremony was also attended by members of management of Aramco Trading, S-OIL, and Aramco affiliates and joint ventures such as ARLANXEO, PRefChem, FREP, and Motiva, as well as representatives from Bahri, the Singapore Economic Development Board, and Enterprise Singapore.  Aramco’s presence in Singapore dates back to 1993, when a representative office was set up to provide services to sales and business development for Saudi crude and refined petroleum products in the Far East region. In 2014, Aramco Asia-Singapore was established to provide crude oil marketing intelligence, material sourcing, supply chain logistics, inspection, and other engineering services.Saudi Aramco today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with China’s Zhejiang Free Trade Zone, in which the Zhoushan Government emphasized its support for incentivizing Saudi Aramco’s greater investment in Zhejiang’s future downstream growth. The MoU was signed in conjunction with a visit to Saudi Aramco’s headquarters in Dhahran by Yuan Jiajun, Governor of the Chinese province of Zhejiang. Together with prior agreements signed during HRH Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman’s visit to China in February this year, this MoU facilitates Saudi Aramco’s planned acquisition of a 9% stake in the Zhejiang integrated refinery and petrochemical complex. It will also include a long-term crude oil supply agreement and the ability to utilize Zhejiang Petrochemical’s large crude oil storage facility to serve its customers in Asia. These activities reflect the Company’s strategy to expand its presence in the Chinese energy sector.  The agreement solidifies Saudi Aramco’s participation in the 400,000 barrels per day refinery from Phase III of the Zhoushan Petrochemical Greenfield project, and also allows the parties to evaluate potential opportunities for investment in other parts of the value chain. These may include refining and petrochemical production, storage and trade of crude oil and natural gas, retail, as well as distribution of oil products within the Zhejiang Free Trade Zone.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comIn collaboration with Aramco’s Environmental Protection Department, Khurais Producing Department (KhPD) has recently rehabilitated the site of its fenced area into three sparkling ponds with more than 120 local tree saplings, three bird nesting towers, and two small natural rock shelters, transforming it into the heart of the Khurais Biodiversity Area. KhPD manager Mohammed I. Sowayigh says the artificial wetland was built to further protect the site’s resources and endemic species, and its trees are sustained with treated water from the sewage treatment plant. “As our operational footprint continues to grow, so does our commitment toward a sustainable environment,” said Sowayigh. “Saudi Aramco and its Southern Area Oil Operations admin area continues to invest considerable efforts and resources into various initiatives around the Kingdom to help protect and preserve our natural environment. “In recent years, a major focus was given to air quality and groundwater conservation, which resulted in a positive impact through the deployment of initiatives such as flare gas recovery, and a seawater reverse osmosis plant,” said Sowayigh. “This commitment has grown over the years toward preserving the biodiversity of Khurais in keeping with Saudi Aramco’s ongoing efforts toward nurturing the Kingdom’s plants and animals, which is aligned with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030.”Saudi Aramco welcomes H.E. Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan as its new Chairman. H.E. Al-Rumayyan was appointed a member of the Company’s Board of Directors in 2016 and is currently the Governor of the Public Investment Fund.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThirty American science teachers recently went on an educational trek across the southwestern U.S. in a geology program that combines classroom learning with real world experiences sponsored by Houston-based Aramco Services Company (ASC).   Founded in 2007, the annual Geology Camp (G-Camp) is a Texas A&M University program investing in the professional development of teachers, and in turn, enriching the classroom experience for students.  “I could not have asked for a better teaching laboratory than this field camp,” said Bonnie Keller, a G-Camp participant from Virginia. Trip of a lifetime Teachers for grades 5-12 from all around the U.S. traveled to College Station, Texas and spent 17 days trekking to national parks in Texas, Colorado, and New Mexico. 
Along the way, they learned about geologic mapping, gathered rock specimens for their classrooms, and visited sites of geologic phenomena. During the journey, the group started at 300 feet above sea level and ascended to altitudes of more than 12,000 feet. Texas A&M University’s Rick Giardino (geomorphology), and Mike Pope (carbonate sedimentology), Department of Geology and Geophysics, selected locations designed to equip teachers with knowledge to meet national school curriculum standards.   For four days, Timothy Diggs, a senior geological consultant with ASC Upstream, joined G-Camp participants to offer industry insights.  “Aramco is very passionate about having students develop through time to become potential geoscientists in any number of fields,” said Diggs. “G-Camp is part of Aramco’s extensive efforts to support and enable STEM education programs around the world to empower the next generation of researchers and scientists.” Alumni form strong bonds, online ‘G-Camp’ community Giardino joked that G-Camp is infectious, saying the goal is to infect teachers with “geological enthusiasm.” 
Science teachers in the U.S. are expected to teach a year of geology, which can be a daunting task since college curriculums typically do not go beyond a three-hour geology focused course. Giardino added that his favorite part about G-Camp is interacting with the teachers and watching their passion for the subject grow. 
“The fact that they give up a part of their summer vacation to come out here and learn how to better nurture their students — shows a lot of dedication to what they do.”
Aramco has been a major sponsor of G-Camp for more than a decade. The program’s popularity with teachers and alumni has resulted in the creation of an active online social media community through Facebook.   With more than 30 teachers instructing hundreds of students each year, G-Camp has influenced tens of thousands of students — perhaps future geoscientists — and counting. Saudi Aramco has deployed roughly 1,000 tons of artificial reefs throughout the Arabian Gulf to help rebuild marine ecosystems as well as support the local fisheries industry. Last year, artificial reefs were deployed at both Safaniyah and Al Khafji — 1,220 artificial reef units at Safaniyah and 459 units at Al Khafji.  This effort contributes to the company’s total deployment of over 2,728 artificial reefs — a number that will continue to rise — as more deployments are planned for the southern Red Sea. At a higher level, partnerships with organizations such as the Smithsonian Institution have helped the company develop a deeper understanding of critical factors needed to ensure and promote conservation of biodiversity in Saudi Arabia, including artificial reefs.  Additionally, the Environmental Protection Department, in collaboration with the Saudi Aramco-KAUST Center for Marine Environmental Observations, presented a research paper on coral reef monitoring in the Red Sea during the 4th Asia-Pacific Coral Reef Symposium last year.  The symposium grouped participants from more than 30 countries to develop solutions to better manage coral reefs. Topics such as management of marine protected areas, sustainable fisheries, coral transplantation, and nurseries are highly relevant to Saudi Aramco due to the amount of company activities near coral reefs and other valuable habitats. The next chapter in unconventionals will be written by companies who compress innovation cycle time, remain laser focused on financial metrics, and adopt a broader innovation mindset to gain a competitive edge. That was the overriding message from the opening session of this year’s Unconventional Resources Technology Conference (URTeC) in Denver, Colorado. Aramco’s technical presence has strengthened since its participation in the 2013 inaugural conference. At that time, unconventionals were a North American phenomenon. Aramco added the international component, signaling its pursuit of unconventionals, namely shale gas, in support of the Kingdom’s Unconventional Gas Initiative. This year’s conference left no doubt that at the forefront for most operators was delivering on ﬁnancial returns. Participants in the plenary “State-of-Play in Unconventional Reservoirs: The Quest for Value” touched on increasing production rates, lowering costs, and focusing on capital efﬁciency to strengthen the balance sheet. Unconventional wells are known for their steep decline rates, so maximizing production rates over the life of the well is critical. The geomechanics theme was again the largest with 10 technical sessions — three chaired by Aramco upstream personnel. Our researchers, geoscientists, and reservoir engineers presented on a wide range of nearly a dozen papers in sessions covering advanced formation evaluation, proppant placement, novel completion technologies, and geophysics. While small- to medium-size operators in North America are credited as the unconventionals’ pioneers, the rise of international shale development in countries such as Russia, China, Argentina, and Saudi Arabia has drawn notice.  “Some may say we came in a bit late but we managed to expedite our learning curve,” said Ahmed H. Mubarak, chief explorationist with the Southern Unconventional Resources, Exploration, and Appraisal Division at Saudi Aramco.  “With a comprehensive suite of logging tools we ensure optimum well placement in the target zone and enhanced hydraulic fracturing techniques are putting us among the highest percentile of the best performing wells in North America.”  Mubarak added that a multidisciplinary “one-team” approach from the outset has allowed the unconventionals program to advance rapidly.  Field efficiency factors, automation, and ﬁeld services management are continuously monitored with nearly a dozen highly automated rigs soon to be delivered for dedicated shale gas drilling, according to Fahad A. Bani, manager of Unconventional Gas Drilling with the Unconventional Resources Drilling Department.  Aramco Services Company Upstream and Aramco Research Center-Houston staff provide technical support and insight into U.S. operations for the Saudi Aramco Unconventional Resources program. Researchers in Houston and Boston are collaborating with Dhahran-based proponents to develop new and novel unconventionals technology and practices.  URTeC attracts a broad range of specialists — geologists, geophysicists, and reservoir engineers — to address the unique challenges associated with unconventional, or shale, oil and gas production. With a joint effort by the world’s three largest leading oil and gas professional societies — the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), and the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG) — the conference remained true to its strong technical program with nearly 400 papers and over 6,000 attendees.  Panel discussions addressed emerging technology, artiﬁcial intelligence, sustainable development induced seismicity, and well integrity. URTeC has expanded with regional conferences in North America and now goes international with an Asia Paciﬁc URTeC scheduled for November of this year in Brisbane, Australia, in recognition of new players and emerging unconventionals basins around the world. Aramco was a diamond sponsor with ASC Upstream staff coordinating and hosting, along with support from Public Affairs and Stafﬁng and Recruitment. Saudi Aramco’s response team controlled a limited fire this morning at the Shaybah NGL facility. There were no injuries and no interruptions to Saudi Aramco’s oil operations. We will provide further details as they become available.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today announced for the first time its half-year financial results. The Company’s net income was $46.9 billion for the first half 2019, compared to $53.0 billion for the same period last year. Earnings before interest and tax* was $92.5 billion, compared with $101.3 billion a year earlier. Free cash flow* was $38.0 billion, compared to $35.6 billion for the same period last year. Capital expenditure was $14.5 billion, compared to $16.5 billion for the same period in 2018.  Commenting on the results, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: “Despite lower oil prices during the first half of 2019, we continued to deliver solid earnings and strong free cash flow underpinned by our consistent operational performance, cost management and fiscal discipline.   Disclosing our financial results for the first time, as part of our $12 billion debut international bond issuance, marked a significant milestone in Saudi Aramco’s history.  We demonstrated our reliability with near 100% delivery on our customers’ requirements for oil and refined products, maintaining our total hydrocarbon production of 13.2 million barrels of oil equivalent per day and an average daily crude production of 10 million barrels per day.  Leveraging our strength in Upstream, we continued to deliver on our Downstream growth strategy, including acquisitions in both Saudi Arabia and key international markets.  These acquisitions are expected to enhance dedicated crude placement, increase refining and chemicals capacity, capture value from integration and diversify our operations. We also signed an agreement to acquire a 70% equity stake in SABIC which is among the world’s top petrochemicals companies by revenues. This is a major step in accelerating growth in Downstream through refining and petrochemicals integration, maximizing the profitability from every molecule we produce.  We grew our trading business and scaled up innovation efforts through pioneering initiatives such as crude-to-chemicals, non-metallic materials manufacturing, and hydrogen fuels. 

Environmental and safety performance is at the forefront of the way we operate. We are particularly proud of the fact that for the first time we announce our Upstream carbon intensity, which is amongst the lowest globally. Looking ahead, we will maintain a prudent and flexible balance sheet. Our financials are strong and we will continue to invest for future growth.”  * Non-IFRS number For Saudi Aramco’s 2019 half-yearly report in full please visit: www.aramco.com/investors Saudi Aramco will discuss its half-year financial and operational results in a webcast on August 12, 2019, at 4pm KSA / 2pm BST. The webcast will be available at www.aramco.com/investorsMedia contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comWhen Najla Binmahfoodh first became a Loss Prevention Department (LPD) engineer in the Jiddah area, she knew that her main responsibilities would be focused on ensuring compliance with safety standards and work procedures, and verifying design implementation to protect assets and the lives of employees and contractors.  Binmahfoodh is part of a new generation of talent who are conducting field and site inspections within facilities, including work during construction phases and total shutdown activities. The core mission of an LPD engineer
In Saudi Aramco, the female workforce includes, among other positions, petroleum engineers, scientists, inventors, and global traders. Recognizing that the energy sector requires gender balance, the company introduces women to field-related roles in all business lines, and  field assignments are tailored as part of their Professional Development Program plans. And like all LPD engineers, Binmahfoodh says safety is at the very core of her work and that nothing can replicate the value of conducting a field visit. For project support engineers, the safety services provided can vary depending on the assignment and role, including minor or major design review implementation and walkthroughs conducted following the completion of a project.  During her assignment, Binmahfoodh attended progress meetings with a number of proponents, conducting multiple site visits during the construction of the North Jiddah Bulk Plant expansion project. She also conducted a developmental visit to the Yanbu’ Refinery, which was undergoing a total shutdown for turnaround and inspection.  
Amazing to witness’ Yanbu’ Refinery
“The visit to the Yanbu’ Refinery was a turning point for me,” Binmahfoodh said. “Every activity in this industry is just fascinating, beginning at rig sites to the refineries, and finally to bulk plants and loading facilities. The entire process of how oil comes into being, and is turned into products that we use every day, is just amazing to witness.”
Mohammed Merdad, the lead Fire Prevention engineer for the Jiddah area LPD, recognized Binmahfoodh’s competency and steady growth during her time with LPD — something that is critical for all young engineers. Binmahfoodh’s career experiences have led her to encourage other female employees in the engineering field to seek opportunities and embrace challenges head on. 
“The time has come for women to pursue more field-based roles and contribute to Saudi Aramco’s value of safety by integrating safety into all aspects of our business,” she says. “The support now provided to female engineers will undoubtedly lead to promising futures in upstream field positions. Female engineers are making their mark on the engineering field, and there is plenty more to come.” The importance of including new Loss Prevention Department engineers in key activities such as field and technical reviews allows them to showcase their capabilities and skills in challenging field conditions — once equipped with the correct tools, knowledge, and support.King Salman Energy Park (SPARK) and Dubai-based Oilfields Supply Center Ltd. (OSC) today signed an agreement to establish OSC as an anchor tenant at SPARK, an energy city megaproject which will cement Saudi Arabia’s position as a global energy, industrial and technology hub.  In collaboration with Saudi Aramco, OSC will develop a business incubator, called the Common User Supply Base (CUSB) to support the oil and gas industry in the Kingdom and the region, as well as help accelerate the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in the energy sector. OSC plans to invest around $450 million over the next two years, contributing to SPARK’s objective of localizing more than 300 new industrial and service facilities. The CUSB will be an industrial facility that provides industrial buildings of various sizes to host companies and supply them with integrated services such as logistics, technical engineering services and business support. The center will be the first of its kind in Saudi Arabia and the largest in the region with a footprint of over 1 million square meters and a potential expansion of an additional 500,000 square meters.  The agreement was signed by Mohammed Y. Qahtani, SPARK Chairman and Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President for Upstream, and Muneeb Abdulrazzaq Al Kazim, General Manager of Oilfields Supply Company Saudi Arabia, in the presence of Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO, and Iqbal Mohammad Abedin, CEO of Oilfields Supply Center Ltd. Commenting on the agreement, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser, said: “OSC’s investment marks an important step in SPARK’s journey to become an integrated energy, industrial, technology and services hub. It will contribute to supply chain localization, boost job creation and support the overall advancement of the Kingdom’s energy sector.“  He added: “OSC’s firm commitment is a strong vote of confidence on SPARK’s value proposition in attracting global and regional companies. Their participation will help advance our strategy to enable the growth of a vibrant ecosystem.” “OSC‘s investment in SPARK and collaboration with Saudi Aramco will position the project as a major enabler for oil and gas manufacturing and service companies and related SMEs,“ said Iqbal Mohammad Abedin, Director and General Manager Corporate Affairs of Oilfields Supply Center Ltd. “It will enhance their localization plans by both increasing local procurement and value added manufacturing activities, as well as increasing the employment of skilled Saudi nationals.“  Saudi Aramco is at the heart of SPARK’s development, helping bring businesses together to drive efficiencies and promote technological development, manufacturing and exports, as well as build a world-class energy supply chain. SPARK’s role in enabling localization within the Kingdom’s energy supply chain aligns with the strategic goals of Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program.  When operational, SPARK is estimated to contribute more than $6 billion to the Kingdom’s GDP annually and create ho thousands of direct and indirect jobs. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.com50 percent of contracts are being awarded to Saudi Arabian companies, increasing the share of locally sourced materials. Saudi Aramco has awarded 34 contracts with a total value  of $18 billion for the engineering, procurement and construction of the Marjan and Berri increment programs. The company plans to boost the Marjan and Berri fields’ production capacity by 550,000 barrels per day of Arabian Crude Oil and 2.5 billion standard  cubic feet a day (BSCFD) of gas. “These two programs will significantly enhance Saudi Aramco’s oil production and gas processing capabilities, both strengthening our position as  the leading integrated energy supplier and meeting growing long-term demand for petroleum,” said Amin H. Nasser, president and CEO of Saudi Aramco. “These investments will support our continued focus on employing best-in-class technologies, well completion,  and reservoir management practices. It will enable Saudi Aramco to further reduce the carbon intensity of our crude oils, supporting our strategy of reducing emissions while providing energy to those who need it.” More than 90 companies and institutions were invited to bid on the packages, and 16 Saudi and international companies were chosen in the fields  of engineering, supply and construction. Saudi companies make up 50 percent of the awarded contracts and they are high- caliber firms that have proven their ability to handle complex projects. Contractors working on these projects are required to maximize the procurement of material and equipment from local suppliers and manufacturers  to help achieve Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (IKTVA) goals, which aim to increase the company’s locally-sourced goods and services to 70 percent by 2021. The projects are expected to create thousands of direct and indirect jobs, supporting Saudi Aramco's efforts to localize and create new job opportunities. The Marjan increment program is an integrated development project for oil, associated gas, non-associated gas and cap gas from the Marjan offshore  field. This development program includes a new offshore gas oil separation plant, and 24 offshore oil, gas and water injection platforms. The company also plans to expand its Tanajib onshore oil facilities and construct a new gas plant, to include gas treatment and processing, NGL  recovery and fractionation, and gas compression facilities. A cogeneration facility will be developed, in addition to a water desalination facility and new transfer pipelines.  The offshore oilfield development project aims to increase the Marjan Field production by 300 MBCD of Arabian Medium Crude Oil, process 2.5 BSCFD  of gas, and produce an additional 360 MBCD of C2+NGL.  Through the Berri increment program, the company plans to add 250,000 barrels of Arabian Light Crude per day from the offshore oilfield.  The planned facilities will, upon completion, include a new gas oil separation plant in Abu Ali Island to process 500,000 barrels of Arabian Light Crude Oil per  day, and additional gas processing facilities at the Khursaniyah gas plant to process 40,000 barrels of associated hydrocarbon condensate.  The program includes a new water injection facility, two drilling islands, 11 oil and water offshore platforms and 9 onshore oil production and water supply drill  sites.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco signaled its commitment to cutting edge technology and developing global partnerships with the opening yesterday of a “game-changing” Baker Hughes GE (BHGE) research facility at Dhahran Techno Valley. The state-of-the-art facility will house a host of groundbreaking technologies, including the first industry 3D printer for metal in Saudi Arabia and a data visualization and automation platform to help simulate and optimize well activity and construction. “This center will be a game-changer in ways that many of us would have considered science fiction’ at the beginning of our careers,” said Saudi Aramco’s Vice President of Petroleum Engineering & Development, Mr. Nasir Al Naimi, welcoming invited guests and a BHGE management delegation led by CEO Lorenzo Simonelli to the Dhahran Techno Valley.  Saudi Aramco expects the technology and strategic impact of the new center to significantly upgrade Saudi Aramco’s capabilities to project manage, design, manufacture, and commission hardware and software (control & condition monitoring industry) with the ambition of deploying it globally. “Saudi Aramco and BHGE have a long history of working together. We appreciate BHGE’s wholehearted commitment to the Kingdom and to supporting Saudi Aramco in its operations,” Mr. Al Naimi said. “In a way, I believe the strength of this relationship comes from a fundamental alignment of the technology roadmaps between Saudi Aramco and BHGE.” The facility is also expected to house a Visualization Lab equipped with a digital learning, visualization and automation platform able to absorb data from multiple sources to create a digital twin of the planned well and its surrounding ecosystem. This will in turn enable well planners to run multiple predictive simulations and workflows to optimize the well construction process. The Dhahran Techno Valley Holding Company (DTVC) – a wholly owned subsidiary of the King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM) – is a key driver of the Dhahran Techno Valley Ecosystem, which was created to promote a knowledge-based economy in Dhahran and in the Eastern Province. This ecosystem includes KFUPM, national champions such as Saudi Aramco, SABIC and SEC, technology partners and small to medium size enterprises.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco and Baker Hughes, a GE company (BHGE)  today signed a memorandum of understanding  to create a new joint venture facility in Saudi Arabia to manufacture non-metallic materials which will be used in a variety of areas of the energy industry. This agreement supports Saudi Aramco’s strategy to play a leading role in accelerating the deployment of non-metallic materials globally. The focus on non-metallic materials is intended to add to the efficiency and reliability of operational assets by reducing the effects of corrosion. The joint venture will initially focus on non-metallic reinforced thermoplastic pipes as a first and critical step towards developing such capabilities in Saudi Arabia.  Welcoming this partnership with BHGE, Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President for Technical Services, Ahmad Al Sa’adi said: “This partnership with BHGE is another step in Saudi Aramco’s journey towards expanding the use of innovative non-metallic materials in its operations. Saudi Aramco has successfully deployed more than 5,000 kilometers of non-metallic pipes, resulting in a significant increase in efficiency and reduction in maintenance and replacement costs across the company’s operations. Producing these materials in the Kingdom would also unlock opportunities for local manufacturers and facilitate knowledge transfer.” Neil Saunders, CEO of BHGE Oilfield Equipment, said: “As a full stream oil and gas service and technology provider, we have a deep background driving non-metallic product development that will benefit a wide range of industries. Saudi Aramco’s vision to expand their product development in the region aligns with our vision to support innovation and manufacturing in Saudi Arabia.” Non-metallic applications are deployed in various industries, including oil and gas, construction, automotive, packaging and renewable energy to manufacture products including flowlines, downhole production tubing, vessels, pumps, and cooling towers, all of which are manufactured from non-metallic materials such as plastic, carbon fiber, and glass fiber. Saudi Aramco recently opened the Non-metallic Innovation Center in the United Kingdom in collaboration with the UK-based Welding Institute and the National Structural Integrity Research Centre to conduct research and development of non-metallic technologies. The center collaborates with leading academic institutions and manufacturers to develop, test, and market new products.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco is advancing its global chemicals growth strategy with today‘s inauguration of S-Oil’s new Residue Upgrading Complex and Olefin Downstream Complex. The new facilities feature the latest refinery technologies, which have raised S-Oil’s petrochemical portion from 8% to 13% and includes high-value products such as propylene and gasoline.  The inauguration of the complex was celebrated in the presence of His Royal Highness Prince Mohammed bin Salman Al-Saud, Crown Prince, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Defense and His Excellency Moon Jae-in President of the Republic of Korea. Also in attendence were His Excellency Khalid Abdulaziz Al Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, and Sung Yunmo, the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy of the Republic of Korea.  “Today‘s inauguration marks a historic moment for both S-Oil and Saudi Aramco. S-Oil serves as a role model for Saudi Aramco’s international downstream strategy and plays an important role by providing the vital energy needed for economic growth in South Korea. These two new facilities will supply high-value products to major Korean industries, whose global brands are part of our everyday lives and rank among the world’s very best in technology, innovation, creativity, and quality,” said Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser. The inauguration also included the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding between the two companies to collaborate on a US$6 billion Steam Cracker & Olefin Downstream Project which is expected to be completed by 2024. The new world class steam cracker will produce ethylene and other basic chemicals out of naphtha and refinery off-gas. This new agreement supports Saudi Aramco’s plan to increase its global petrochemicals footprint over the next decade. It will further include the deployment of Saudi Aramco’s Thermal Crude-to-Chemicals Technology, shifting S-OIL’s focus from “oil to chemicals” to better position the company in the future energy market.  Aramco Overseas Company is a major shareholder in S-Oil which is South Korea’s third-largest refiner.  Saudi Aramco initially invested in S-Oil in 1991, and their relationship continues to grow stronger, with the refining capacity increasing from 90 thousand bpd in 1990 to roughly 700 thousand bpd in 2018. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco and its affiliates signed 12 agreements with major South Korean companies to reinforce relationships with South Korea, expand international operations, and support the region’s energy security with the expansion of Arabian crude oil supply to Asian markets. Commenting on the agreements, Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “Only a few decades ago, Korean companies played a vital role in Saudi Aramco’s upstream offshore growth development. Since then, they have moved into other sectors matching Saudi Aramco’s diversification strategy. Today’s agreements mark a new era of cooperation with our Korean partners who will play an increasingly important role in our strategy to capitalize on new initiatives that include long-term energy supply, maritime and infrastructure development, and breakthrough research and development in the automotive, crude to chemicals, and non-metallic sectors.” The agreements are part of Saudi Aramco’s long-term downstream growth and diversification strategy, which were signed with the following South Korean companies: Hyundai Heavy Industries (HHI) Hyundai Oilbank The Hyundai Motor Group Korea National Oil Corporation  Hyosung GS Holdings Daelim IndustrialMedia contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco and Air Products (NYSE:APD) today inaugurated the first hydrogen fueling station in Saudi Arabia at Air Products’ new Technology Center in the Dhahran Techno Valley Science Park. The pilot station will fuel an initial fleet of six Toyota Mirai fuel cell electric vehicles with high-purity compressed hydrogen.  The announcement comes amid growing international recognition of hydrogen’s benefits. A report released last week by the International Energy Agency (IEA) concludes that hydrogen has vast potential to help the world reduce emissions while addressing its energy needs.  “This pilot project represents an exciting opportunity for Saudi Aramco and Air Products to demonstrate the potential of hydrogen in the transport sector and its viability as a sustainable fuel for the future,” said Amin H. Nasser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco. “Today’s milestone is an important step in making oil-to-hydrogen a reality as Saudi Aramco continues to be focused on creating breakthrough technologies and solutions as part of our long term efforts to reduce carbon emissions and address climate concerns.” “It is well known that our world needs a sustainable system to address environmental challenges while also meeting growing energy demand. Hydrogen and fuel cell technologies are well positioned to be part of the solution,” said Seifi Ghasemi, Air Products’ Chairman, President and CEO. “We are honored to collaborate with Saudi Aramco to establish and develop a sustainable, hydrocarbon-based hydrogen supply system for fuel cell vehicles in Saudi Arabia.” The new fueling station combines Saudi Aramco’s industrial and technological experience with Air Products’ know-how and experience in the field of hydrogen fueling. 
Air Products’ proprietary SmartFuel® hydrogen fueling technology will be incorporated into the new station to supply Toyota Mirai Fuel Cell Vehicles with compressed hydrogen. The data collected during the initial phase of this project will provide valuable information for the assessment of future applications of this emerging and diverse transport technology in the local environment.    It is expected that the fleet of Toyota Mirai vehicles will have a driving range of 500km with water as their only emission and the ability to be fueled in five minutes as opposed to an hour for traditional battery electric vehicles. This would demonstrate the potential of hydrogen fueled vehicles to make a significant contribution to a clean, secure, and affordable energy future. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco Trading Co. (ATC), which expects to see its oil trading volume rise to 6 million barrels per day (bpd) by next year, has opened its second international office in Fujairah with the firm’s chairman and senior vice president of Downstream with Saudi Aramco, Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, and ATC president and CEO Ibrahim Q. Al-Buainain in attendance. ATC’s expansion plans are expected to propel the Dhahran-based company into the top tier of global fuel trading companies. The wholly owned subsidiary of Saudi Aramco opened the office in the UAE’s Fujairah as part of a global push into new markets to secure buyers for refined products, as well as crude oil.

The new facility, Aramco Trading Fujairah (ATF), will handle all Aramco Trading gasoline and fuel oil storage and blending activities. 

“We’ve been in Fujairah for a number of years and as our trading business expands globally — between Singapore, Saudi Arabia, London, and Houston — we trade across different time zones, and with Fujairah as the center of our blending operations, we thought it’s important to be here physically doing trading as a business in Fujairah,” said Al-Judaimi. “We are very happy with the relationships here — be it with our clients, our suppliers and the government — they have been very open and have welcomed us to be here for many years.”

“Aramco Trading has experienced significant growth in recent years,” said Al-Buainain. “We started in 2012 with 600,000 to 700,000 bpd and now we’re operating at more than 4 million bpd — and as the downstream business grows to the level that we want to reach 8-10 million bpd — Aramco Trading will grow together with that business. 

“At Fujairah, we have a growing business that started with 100,000 bpd and now we have 350,000 bpd between gasoline and fuel oil. So, for this reason, Fujairah would be the optimum location that is close to our assets and close to the free zone.”

The inauguration of the new office facility comes only a month after Aramco Trading announced that it had sold its first LNG cargo — the first of many more to come.

In 2012, ATC was established to market refined products, and bulk petrochemicals. Beginning with refined products from its overseas refineries in the past years, leading them to introduce trading non-Saudi crude oil in 2017 as the world’s largest oil exporter successfully optimizes profits.

As the UAE’s only emirate on the Arabian Sea coast, Fujairah is at the heart of the new energy corridor opening east of Suez to Asia. The emirate is already established as a world-scale storage and bunkering center alongside Rotterdam and Singapore, and is set to benefit in the next few years from plans to expand crude and petroleum product facilities to avail of the state-of-the-art physical infrastructure on offer.Aramco’s participation in this year’s Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) fit the theme of “Going The Distance” as the offshore energy sector prepares for the next five decades of development. Return to the premier oil and gas show underscored Aramco’s long-term investments, partnerships, and technology advances that have enabled it to continue in its role as a world leading energy supplier. The conference is known for its strong technical program. Aramco presented papers in two sessions — Erosion and Corrosion Prediction, and Monitoring and Mitigation and Smart Materials. Corrosion in offshore well completions can lead to serious well integrity problems and costly workover operations. Representatives from Saudi Aramco’s Northern Area Oil Operations (NAOO) outlined the use of a nonmetallic glass reinforced epoxy to protect completion equipment against a range of corrosive elements in the paper “Effective Corrosion Mitigation Exploiting Glass Reinforced Epoxy Lined Tubulars in Offshore Producing and Injection Wells.”  Aramco also contributed to a paper in the Smart Materials session examining the use of additives to cement to modify or improve its strength and resistance to fluid loss or gas leaks to enhance well performance. “Characterizing Smart Cement Modified with Styrene Butadiene Polymer for Quality Control, Curing and to Control and Detect Fluid Loss and Gas Leaks Using Vipulanandan Models” was presented by the University of Houston’s Center for Innovative Grouting Materials and Technology, illustrative of the many academic technical collaborations Aramco has around the world.   In the same session, “Nano-Composite Resin Coated Proppant for Hydraulic Fracturing” highlighted the coating of in-Kingdom sand for fracturing in unconventional gas reservoirs. Increasing the mechanical strength of the sand creates Saudi sand strong enough to be used as a proppant for hydraulic fracturing treatments in support of the Kingdom’s domestic gas development for unconventional plays.   Supplementing the technical papers, a series of well-attended in-booth presentations showed how the company is moving technology from its global research and development network into the field.  Five topics showcased a new class of hybrid acidizing fluids for reservoir stimulation, development of an untethered downhole sensor tool that replaces conventional well logging, toughening of oil well cements and drilling with cement, and finally, work with high temperature fracturing fluids.  
An international show, OTC is held annually in Houston recognizing the city as a world energy hub home to more than 5,000 energy-related firms. Aramco’s offshore field investments, upgrades, and issuance of long-term agreements with contractors for oil field projects such as Zuluf, Marjan, Safaniyah, and Berri — have far-reaching industry effects.    Recent partnerships and collaborations such as the Arabian Rig Manufacturing JV and a composite pipe facility producing spoolable and jointed pipe, including high-pressure line pipe and downhole tubing and casing has captured the attention of industry observers as Aramco works to become a global leader in nonmetallic applications.   Participating in a panel discussion “Venture Capital Investment Driving Innovation in Offshore Deepwater,” Jim Sledzik, managing director for Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures-U.S., emphasized the strategic value and relevance to a company’s operations when investing. “The ecosystem of R&D is huge. Often, companies look to infuse innovation and technology with corporate venture capital,” he said.   Representatives from Saudi Aramco’s Houston-based Aramco Services Company supported the conference with representatives from Upstream, Procurement and Logistics, Staffing and Recruitment, Public Affairs, and U.S.-based researchers attending. More than 60,000 attended this year’s conference with more than 2,000 exhibiting companies from 40 countries.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comEvery year, May 22 is International Day for Biological Diversity, a United Nations (U.N.) sanctioned day to promote and observe biodiversity issues. Biodiversity goes beyond safeguarding the lives of endangered animal species. Protecting and enhancing biodiversity includes ensuring sustainable agriculture, preventing desertification and land degradation, combating drought, safeguarding water resources, and providing sanitation services and energy, as well as employing the latest technology and innovation to allow for sustainable development.  It also means protecting our oceans, forests, and indigenous societies, as well as ensuring food security and dealing with climate change. For 2019, the May 22 theme is “Our Biodiversity, Our Food, Our Health.” According to the U.N., biodiversity serves as the foundation for sustenance and nutritional well-being, acting as a “key catalyst” in transforming food systems and improving human health. “In the past 100 years, more than 90% of crop varieties have disappeared from farmers’ fields,” the U.N. Environmental Program said in a statement unveiling the 2019 theme. “Half of the breeds of many domestic animals have been lost, and all of the world’s 17 main fishing grounds are now being fished at or above their sustainable limits.”  While food variety may be on the rise, the global diet — or what people actually eat — is becoming increasingly lacking in variety. To ensure proper diet across the planet and provide nutritious meals to the global population, healthy biodiversity is a fundamental requirement. After all, healthy ecosystems are needed to ensure healthy crop, meat, and fish offerings.Fortunately, protecting and enhancing biodiversity is nothing new to Saudi Aramco. Many inside and outside the Kingdom are aware of our work developing the Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary, in which Saudi Aramco and partners reintroduced the Arabian oryx, the sand gazelle, and the ostrich into a securely fenced protected area spanning 637 square kilometers — an area not much smaller than the Kingdom of Bahrain. This project also supports 10 plant species that are able to withstand some of the most extreme conditions on Earth, while other studies have revealed that as many as 13 native reptile species, 18 mammal species, and a staggering 176 bird species might also occur within the fenced area. Add to that, the sanctuary is likely to protect 19 species that occur only in the Arabian Peninsula. The Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary aligns with the U.N. Convention on Biological Diversity by, for example, protecting 39 species that the Saudi government has listed as being of national Conservation Priority, 40 species that are formally listed as internationally threatened or near threatened, and 92 species that are internationally decreasing. In addition, the sanctuary aligns with the U.N. Convention on Conserving Migratory Species by creating a safe haven for up to 169 migratory bird species that potentially pass through on their epic annual journeys between their African foraging grounds and their breeding grounds across Europe and Asia.  Saudi Aramco’s mission to both protect and enhance biodiversity is not limited to Shaybah. At of the end of 2018, the company identified 18 sites that contain high-quality habitat that exceed the criteria to be designated as Corporate Biodiversity Protection Areas, meaning that each of these sites contains regionally or internationally threatened, migratory or endemic species. To protect natural ecosystems elsewhere, the company continues to plant mangrove seedlings with more than 2.2 million already planted. Restoring mangrove forests will not only absorb significant amounts of carbon dioxide (2 million mangroves will contribute to the removal of approximately 4 million tons of the gas over the lifetime of the trees, and that’s the equivalent of carbon dioxide emitted by more than 820,000 cars), they nurture the sea life species needed to supply the Kingdom with healthy seafood resources. Elsewhere, the company is working to plant 1 million native trees across the Kingdom that will not only enhance biodiversity but will also combat desertification by slowing down the advance of blowing sand.These and other projects protect Saudi Arabia’s incredible array of biodiversity, which includes 498 bird species, 117 mammal species, 107 reptile species, 2,400 flowering plant species, 266 coral-reef species, and 1,230 fish species. 

To put those numbers into perspective, Saudi Arabia has more bird species per square kilometer than the U.S., Australia, or Brazil. (Source: EPD research using data from BirdLife International)

Almost 300 species migrate through the Kingdom annually, and three major flyways intersect the peninsula, bringing birds from as far away as India, Madagascar, South Africa, Scandinavia, Siberia, and even Alaska. Some of these birds have flown more than 10,000 kilometers by the time they reach Saudi Arabia.

To protect and enhance biodiversity, we can all play our part. Be sure to turn off lights, take care of water leaks, and take green matters into your own hands daily. Small steps, when taken on a mass scale, can make a big difference. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSempra Energy (NYSE:SRE) and Saudi Aramco today announced their respective subsidiaries, Sempra LNG and Aramco Services Company, have signed a heads of agreement (HOA).  The HOA anticipates the negotiation and finalization of a definitive 20-year liquefied natural gas (LNG) sale-and-purchase agreement (SPA) for five million tonnes per annum (Mtpa) of LNG offtake from Phase 1 of the Port Arthur LNG export-project under development. It also includes the negotiation and finalization of a 25% equity investment in Phase 1 of Port Arthur LNG.  Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco’s CEO & President, said,“The agreement with Sempra LNG is a major step forward in Saudi Aramco’s long term strategy to become a leading global LNG player. With global demand for LNG expected to grow by around 4% per year, and likely to exceed 500 million metric tons a year by 2035, we see significant opportunities in this market and we will continue to pursue strategic partnerships which enable us to meet rising global demand for LNG.“  “At Sempra Energy, we are developing one of the largest LNG export infrastructure portfolios in North America, with an eye towards connecting millions of consumers to cleaner, more reliable energy sources,” said Jeffrey W. Martin, chairman and CEO of Sempra Energy. “We are pleased to partner with affiliates of Saudi Aramco, the largest oil & gas company in the world, to advance the development of Sempra LNG’s natural gas liquefaction facility in Texas and enable the export of American natural gas to global markets.” The proposed Port Arthur LNG Phase 1 project is expected to include two liquefaction trains, up to three LNG storage tanks and associated facilities that should enable the export of approximately 11 Mtpa of LNG on a long-term basis. Port Arthur LNG could be one of the largest LNG export projects in North America, with potential expansion capabilities of up to eight liquefaction trains or approximately 45 Mtpa of capacity.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco responded to a fire at East West Pipeline Pump station 8 which was caused by a sabotage incident using armed drones which targeted pump stations 8 and 9.  As a precautionary measure, the Company temporarily shut down the pipeline, and contained the fire which caused minor damage to pump station 8. Saudi Aramco confirms that no injuries or fatalities have been reported. Saudi Aramco’s oil and gas supplies have not been impacted as a result of this incident. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comIn collaboration with the University of Leeds in United Kingdom, Aramco’s Exploration admin area introduces an additional innovative approach to postgraduate development in addition to its regular out-of-Kingdom Advanced Degree Program (ADP).  “While Exploration is still benefiting from the ADP opportunity offered to the organization through Training and Development, additional programs have been introduced to accommodate the increasing number of College Degree Program for Non-Employees (CDPNEs) and graduates joining the organization,” says Misfir A. AzZahrani, executive director of Exploration.  “This hosted M.S. program allows a greater number of employees to enhance their academic qualifications at a master’s level, while applying their coursework and learning to their day-to-day work,” said AzZahrani. “It also provides the opportunity for employees to improve their technical communication skills in English via an innovative language and skills support component.  Hafiz J. Al Shammery, acting general manager with Exploration’s Prospect Portfolio Development, said: “We are grateful to have world-class lecturers come to Saudi Aramco to deliver the program and afford our staff the opportunity to receive the best academic and industry training in the world within the company’s setting.  The hosted M.S. program in geoscience has already given 59 students the opportunity to receive training at the master’s level since it began in September 2017. This is tenfold the number of students who would have benefited from an out-of-Kingdom master’s program.  “The hosted M.S. program in geoscience has proven to be one of the best postgraduate academic courses introduced since Saudi Aramco started on a path of academic advancement and accelerated skills development over 70 years ago,” said Ahmed M. Aburas, director of academic programs with Training and Development. Professor Douglas Paton, the course director from the University of Leeds, said: “We are absolutely delighted that our efforts to develop and deliver the best postgraduate educational offering in this specialist field — at a scalable level — have been acknowledged at high levels by this award.  “We are extremely grateful for Saudi Aramco’s ongoing commitment to developing its people, accelerating skills advancement and encouraging innovation, which has allowed the collaboration between Saudi Aramco and the University of Leeds to develop an excellent academic program that benefits so many and adds real-time value to the company.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) is to acquire Shell Saudi Arabia Refining Limited’s (Shell) 50% share of the SASREF joint venture in Jubail Industrial City, in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, for $631 million. Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco‘s Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “The partnership with Shell has led to a strong record of performance and delivery of refined products. Saudi Aramco will take full ownership and integrate the refinery into its growing Downstream portfolio. SASREF will continue to be a critical facility in our refining and chemicals business and we look forward to further optimising its performance and long term viability.” John Abbott, Shell Downstream Director, said: “SASREF has been a long and successful partnership between Shell and Saudi Aramco. The refinery has operated with good reliability, and has an impressive safety record. We’re proud of what we have achieved together over the past four decades and will continue to explore new business opportunities.”  The acquisition supports Saudi Aramco’s plan to increase the complexity and capacity of its refineries, as part of its long-term Downstream growth strategy.  For Shell, the sale is part of an ongoing effort to focus its refining portfolio, integrating with Shell Trading hubs and Chemicals. The sale is expected to complete later this year, subject to regulatory approval.  The refinery has a capacity of 305,000 barrels per day. The main products are liquefied petroleum gas, naphtha, kerosene, diesel, fuel oil and sulphur.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comMore than 600 upcoming Saudi Arabia construction projects worth $130 billion (SR500 billion) were presented to approximately 1,500 contracting professionals at the Middle East’s first and largest contracting forum held in Riyadh recently. Saudi Aramco was an active participant, and one of several leading companies, as well as government organizations, presenting their contracting projects at the two-day “Future Projects Forum” that was organized by the Saudi Contractors Authority.  Riyadh Governor HRH Prince Faisal Bin Bandar Al-Saud opened the event, which brought together investors, project owners, and contractors to exchange the latest information on the Kingdom’s future development projects, and other opportunities. The Prince praised the forum for helping to promote an integrated approach to achieving the country’s ambitions for the sector. Saudi Arabia, a G20 country, is considered the largest contracting market in the Middle East, with a total annual contracting value of $100 billion. With its long experience in managing mega-projects, Saudi Aramco is a well established major customer for contract companies, and senior vice president of Technical Services Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi delivered the forum’s keynote address. Describing the first-ever event as a significant platform for exploring future prospects, Al Sa’adi said the Kingdom was already the Middle East’s largest market for contracting, and this would increase with Saudi Arabia’s growth in industrial, service, and residential projects.  Al Sa’adi said Saudi Aramco is currently implementing about 200 major projects through a selection of local and international contractors. 
“We are always keen to support and encourage contractors and manufacturers, and to provide opportunities for them to carry out work within the various projects carried out by Saudi Aramco in the oil or gas, petrochemical industries, energy projects, and infrastructure, as well as social participation projects,” said Al Sa’adi. Saudi Aramco Project Management vice president Fahad E. Al-Helal endorsed the event as a “game changer” in the Saudi contractor community — building competency, reliability, and working toward achieving even higher success. “It is a great indicator toward creating a collaborative environment that fosters partnerships to realize the Kingdom’s vision,” said Al-Helal. Industry experts took part in presenting the sector’s growth and opportunities. Abdulah S. Al-Seflan, an engineer with the Project Management Office Department, presented on Saudi Aramco’s project management philosophy, its different processes and mechanisms. Contracts sourcing supervisor Nadeem Iqbal presented the available business opportunities with the company. Giving an overview of Saudi Aramco’s project portfolio for the next three years, Iqbal listed the projects in the oil and gas processing facilities, pipelines, power generation, offshore facilities, and civil infrastructure sectors, and presented the pre-qualification bid requirements for local construction contractors. One of 20 exhibitors at the forum, Saudi Aramco’s booth was visited by more than 350 contractors. Project Management Office Department general supervisor Emad Al-Johar said the team staffing the booth received many questions from contractors seeking advice on how to register with Saudi Aramco so they could bid on the company’s future projects. “After Nadeem Iqbal presented Saudi Aramco’s three-year plan for upcoming projects, 80 contractors from within and outside the Kingdom were so interested that they immediately came to the stand to register,” said Al-Johar. The company’s 2019-21 business plan covers approximately 190 projects to be awarded in the coming three years.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) and Hyundai Heavy Industries Holdings today announced that they have reached an agreement for Saudi Aramco’s subsidiary,  Aramco Overseas Company B.V (AOC), to purchase a 17% stake in South Korea's Hyundai Oilbank, a subsidiary of Hyundai Heavy Industries Holdings. The investment is valued at approximately $ 1.25 billion. AOC’s investment in South Korea’s Hyundai Oilbank will support Saudi Aramco’s crude oil placement strategy by providing a dedicated outlet for Arabian crude oil to South Korea. Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Downstream, said: “Saudi Aramco continues to strengthen its position in the downstream sector. This acquisition demonstrates our investment in the highly complex refining sector in Asia, and continuous commitment to the region’s energy security and development.”  Judaimi added : The investment supports Saudi Aramco’s broader downstream growth strategy, as well as providing long term crude oil placement supply options and product offtakes as part of our trading business. Hyundai Oilbank is a private oil refining company established in 1964. The Daesan Complex, where Hyundai Oilbank’s major facilities are located, is a fully integrated refining plant with a processing capacity of 650,000 barrels per day. The business portfolio of Hyundai Oilbank and its 5 subsidiaries includes oil refining, base oil, petrochemicals, and a network of gas stations.   AOC is a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco. It provides support services to Saudi Aramco and, through its investments and joint ventures, forms an integral part of the global Saudi Aramco oil, gas, and chemicals enterprise.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAramco Trading expands collaborations in key European markets by signing Supply Agreement with “PKN Orlen”, Poland’s leading oil refiner. Aramco Trading, the trading subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, today signed an agreement for the supply of Arabian Crude Oil to Poland’s leading refiner, PKN Orlen, in exchange for a similar volume of high sulfur fuel oil from the Polish refiner. The agreement demonstrates Saudi Aramco’s strategy to place set volumes of crude oil across different geographies, maintaining a healthy balance between third party customers and affiliated outlets. The agreement was signed this afternoon by President & CEO of Aramco Trading, Mr. Ibrahim Al-Buainain and Executive Director of Trading Grzegorz Markiewicz from PKN Orlen. It was signed in the presence of Saudi Aramco CEO Amin H. Nasser and PKN Orlen CEO Daniel Obajtek at a ceremony hosted by Saudi Aramco at its Dhahran headquarters. The agreement paves the way for a further expansion of Saudi Aramco’s well established partnership and collaboration strategy while diversifying PKN’s crude oil supplies and securing new outlets for their products. The increasing number of strategic partnerships established across refining, chemical and marketing activities reinforce Saudi Aramco’s downstream growth ambitions and bolsters its successful efforts to span the length of the value chain. The increased European presence also positions Saudi Aramco favorably to supply critical feedstock to the European market. In addition, the agreement consolidates Saudi Aramco’s efforts to earmark new strategic outlets for crude oil enabling the company to accommodate a range of future market positions, as well as underpinning an optimal balance of geographic exposure between Asia, Europe, and North America. PKN Orlen has a pre-existing crude oil supply agreement in place with Aramco Trading’s parent company, Saudi Aramco, which provides 74MBD Arabian Crude Oil to Poland’s premier refiner.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Saudi Aramco”) today announced that it has priced an offering of $12 billion in its inaugural international bond issuance. The issuance is comprised of five tranches of senior unsecured notes under Saudi Aramco’s Global Medium Term Note Program. The tranches include: The offering is expected to close on 16 April 2019, subject to customary closing conditions. The Notes will trade on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market and be admitted to the official list of the United Kingdom Listing Authority.  This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and nor shall there be any offer, solicitation or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold in the United States or to U.S. persons absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements. This communication does not constitute an offer of any securities to the public in the United Kingdom. This communication is being distributed to and is directed only at (i) persons who are outside the United Kingdom, (ii) persons who are investment professionals within the meaning of Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”), (iii) high net worth entities, and other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order, and (iv) any other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated or caused to be communicated (all such persons in (i) to (iv) together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). Any investment activity to which this communication relates will only be available to and will only be engaged with, Relevant Persons. Any person who is not a Relevant Person should not act or rely on this document or any of its contents. MiFID II professionals/ECPs-only – Manufacturer target market (MIFID II product governance) is eligible counterparties and professional clients only (all distribution channels).
 Forward-Looking Information
This release contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this release are forward-looking statements. Saudi Aramco believes that the forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions and expectations. However, you are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of the future and that a number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual events to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco has signed an agreement with the Arizona Centers for Comprehensive Education and Life Skills (ACCEL) of Phoenix to solidify and strengthen the provision of exemplary support services for children with developmental disabilities. The Ajyal Special Needs Center (ASNC) is the result of this determined collaboration — a unique alliance named ACCEL International for Saudi Education — founded on expanding windows of opportunity through this international provider of quality special education. “Saudi Aramco has a substantial sense of citizenship to its people — not just its employees, but the community at large,” said Muhammad M. Al Saggaf, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Operations & Business Services. “The ASNC is one humble example of how that sense of citizenship will continue to endear Saudi Aramco to everyone in the Kingdom.” ACCEL International for Saudi Education provides an integrated approach of multiple, evidence-based practices from the fields of education and behavioral science, as well as integrated clinical practices in the areas of speech and language therapy, physical therapy, and therapeutic enrichment.   The March 28 signing ceremony included project proponents Al Saggaf, Faisal A. Al Hajji, Saudi Aramco general manager of Training and Development; Ahmed M. Aburas, Saudi Aramco director of the Academic Programs and Partnerships Department; and Raymond Damm, CEO of ACCEL. “The ASNC was envisioned as a quality provider of special education and support services for children with developmental disabilities,” said Al Hajji. “We will strive in our next steps to become nationally and internationally recognized in our expertise. Damm is confident in ACCEL’s ability to provide positive results and to work with Saudi Aramco and its stakeholders to build a world-class program replicated around the Kingdom. “It is our hope that this will be the first of many centers to help children reach their fullest potential.” Aburas sees the development of ACCEL International for Saudi Education as a “model of dignity. “I am confident this will make a difference for thousands of children and their families,” he said. Abdulaziz Al Hijji, a division head in the General Education Partnerships Department and project lead, agrees wholeheartedly with “the far-reaching prospects of ACCEL International for Saudi Education, which will be generated as this society transforming initiative awaits global recognition.” The executive director of the National Commission for the Accreditation of Special Education Services (NCASES), Danielle Johnson, is thrilled with the prospect of accrediting the ASNC as the very first international location in the history of the commission — sentiments that were echoed by Damm. NCASES accreditation ensures, among other factors, that providers supply comprehensive and holistic diagnostic, educational, therapeutic, and vocational service delivery models that support individual needs of children with developmental disabilities from three to 18 years of age. In addition, into adulthood, ACCEL will act as a service model to support successful student transitions in academic inclusion, supported jobs, and independent living skills.
With a mission to transform the lives of children with developmental disabilities and their families, the scope and breadth of this highly anticipated initiative will resonate throughout the Kingdom. “The prime optimal goal for ACCEL International is to form an exemplary inclusion model that can be replicated across the nation,” said Al Hajji.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comMembers of Saudi Aramco's Young Leaders Advisory Board (YLAB) took part in a stimulating professional development program at the CERAWeek global energy summit — meeting with executives, researchers, and traders at Aramco affiliates while also engaging in a workshop with young professionals from Halliburton to identify potential solutions to the perception challenge facing the industry. Participating in the YLAB visit to Houston were about a dozen Saudi Aramco employees that included the current team and several alumni. The 12-day visit was an opportunity to learn about the latest global trends in energy technology and markets, establish personal networks across the industry with other young leaders, and help position Saudi Aramco as an employer of choice among younger workers. YLAB serves as a bridge between Saudi Aramco’s management and the company’s younger workers. Serving on YLAB is voluntary, and members contribute to it in addition to their normal work roles.  Aramco Services Company hosted meetings for the YLAB group with scientists at the Aramco Houston Research Center, which pioneers new upstream technologies. There was also interaction with fund managers from Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures, which invests in energy startups, traders, and leaders of Motiva — the largest refiner in the United States — as well as young professionals from Halliburton to brainstorm solutions for the industry to follow when addressing difficult communication and perception issues in the future.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Arabian Oil Company (“Saudi Aramco”) today announced that it has established a Global Medium Term Note Program (the “Program”) and will conduct a series of fixed  income investor meetings commencing on April 1, 2019. An offering of U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes (the “Notes”) under the Program may follow, subject to market conditions. The Notes, if issued, will be admitted to the official list of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and admitted to trading on the London  Stock Exchange’s Regulated Market.  This announcement does not constitute an offer to sell, or a solicitation of an offer to buy, any security and nor shall there be any  offer, solicitation or sale of any security in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful. The Notes have not been and will not be registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and may not be offered or sold  in the United States or to U.S. persons absent registration or an applicable exemption from registration requirements.  This communication does not constitute an offer of any securities to the public in the United Kingdom. This communication is being distributed  to and is directed only at (i) persons who are outside the United Kingdom, (ii) persons who are investment professionals within the meaning of Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”), (iii)  high net worth entities, and other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated, falling within Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order, and (iv) any other persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be communicated or caused to be communicated (all such persons  in (i) to (iv) together being referred to as “Relevant Persons”). Any investment activity to which this communication relates will only be available to and will only be engaged with, Relevant Persons. Any person who is not a Relevant Person should not act  or rely on this document or any of its contents.  MiFID II professionals/ECPs-only – Manufacturer target market (MIFID II product governance) is eligible counterparties and professional  clients only (all distribution channels). This release contains forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact included in this release are forward-looking statements. Saudi  Aramco believes that the forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions and expectations. However, you are cautioned that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of the future and that a number of risks and uncertainties could  cause actual events to differ materially from those anticipated in the forward-looking statements.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comLadies and Gentlemen, good morning.  Thank you, Clay, for inviting me to share your special day.  The opening of your state-of-the-art production facility here in Dammam 3rd Industrial City is a day we have all been looking forward to. First, this is an important day for the Kingdom. We are honored, Clay, that you chose Saudi Arabia as the location for NOV’s second production facility. I believe it will be even bigger than your original facility in Houston.  It is certainly the first Reinforced Thermoplastic Pipe, or RTP, manufacturing facility in the Kingdom. And I have no doubt that it will soon become a tremendous hub for the GCC and MENA regions.  It is also an important validation of Saudi Vision 2030 and Saudi Aramco’s localization program, iktva, which is helping to drive it. Bringing sophisticated technologies to the Kingdom is one component.  Being able to export high quality products with “Made in Saudi Arabia” on them will surely be another. And with 50% Saudization here already (on a path towards 90%), most of the work will be done by Saudis.  Above all, it confirms that the desire to locate here is growing; that it is getting easier to do business here; and that increased market share in a global energy hub is very likely to be the result. Second, this is an important day for Saudi Aramco.  The oil market volatility of recent years has intensified our efforts on operational efficiency, cost avoidance, and reliability. We are also expanding in unconventional gas, petrochemicals, and retail.  Crucially, I believe there are even more innovative ways to monetize each barrel of oil using advanced oil-based materials, which is why we are examining new outlets for our products.  This includes our own pipelines, since non-metallic pipes address the long-standing challenges of ageing assets and corrosion.  More strategically, this could create additional markets for our crude, and enable potential opportunities for local manufacturers. That was the essential case behind our decision to become a global leader in Nonmetallic Applications.  And that is why we are incorporating nonmetallic solutions into our capital projects across our expanding operations, backed by billions of dollars of investment. We are also determined to partner with local and international suppliers, as well as research institutes, to accelerate their development and deployment in Saudi Aramco facilities.  Being able to efficiently and cost-effectively access key raw materials from our suppliers when we need them is a crucial part of our value proposition – and of course NOV’s ikvta score.   So NOV’s new facility ticks all the boxes for us at Saudi Aramco.  Which brings me to the third reason why this is a special day.  It is a chance to say in public what we have been saying to NOV in private for some time.  As Clay will recall, we were honored to host NOV’s Board in Dhahran last November. We wanted to thank them for the strong engagement and collaboration we have already built between our two great companies, which we have seen throughout this project. We also explored ways of making it even stronger, particularly by boosting your iktva score, with several exciting options on the table.  But the crucial point we made then (which I am happy to repeat now) is that NOV is not a reactive company that lets others carry the load. They are helping to bring the win-win nature of Vision 2030 and iktva to life, adding tremendous value to Saudi Aramco.  And I am sure this facility will inspire many more to follow their lead.  Ladies and Gentlemen, that is why today is such a special day… for the Kingdom, for Saudi Aramco, and for everyone at NOV.  I want to thank everyone who has made today possible, particularly our dear friends and partners at MODON and the Saudi Electricity Company. I wish this facility every good fortune in the months and years ahead.  And I know that all of us are just getting started…  Thank you. Saudi Aramco’s senior vice president of Upstream told attendees of the 21st Middle East Oil & Gas Show and Conference (MEOS 2019) that taking into account “the evolving nature of what resilience means to our industry” is important to redefining the future. Delivering a keynote address at the conference, Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani said the industry must respond to the fact that “the enablers of resilience — profitability, adaptability, and sustainability” — are being redefined, much like the energy landscape itself. Al Qahtani called for the industry to be “smarter” and outlined three measures to be considered toward that end — and not necessarily limited to just technology. “Engineering, earth sciences, managing mega-projects — this is in our wheelhouse, our I.Q. if you will,” said Al Qahtani. But he suggested that other factors ought to be considered — E.Q., which takes into account developing stronger emotional intelligence to better understand and meet society’s expectations, and C.Q., which would see a renewed focus on cost and competitive advantage. With regard to I.Q., Al Qahtani said the oil and gas industry has “a unique and historic opportunity” to be at the epicenter of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.
“As an industry, we have massive amounts of data from seismic, production, mechanical, and electrical functions. A single drilling rig or gas plant can generate terabytes of data every day,” said Al Qahtani. “But we can tap into only a small fraction of it. By applying new technologies to data, we are already gathering, we can change the game.” As an example, he cited that in exploration, machine learning and artificial intelligence can sift through vast amounts of 3-D and 4-D seismic data to extract features invisible to the human eye. In drilling, said Al Qahtani, the industry should settle for nothing less than fully automated drilling rigs to enhance performance, safety, and efficiency. “As an industry, we must reclaim our passion for innovation, because there are technologies within our reach that are turning science fiction into science fact.”. Market turbulence, he said, has had a lasting impact on investment, adding, “We must reverse this trend, because I believe lagging investment is the greatest single threat to our future success.”. He also suggested that “collaboration, not isolation” is key to making innovation work on a grand scale. “Whether it’s a full-scale test deployment with a leading robotics company, or a simple collaboration with a university on a difficult algorithm, we must transform our industry by working together,” he said. Turning to emotional intelligence, Al Qahtani said successful energy companies of the future must be seen as contributing to human advancement — whether that be consumers and employees, supplies, governments, regulators, or communities.
Paying attention to climate change and delivering technologies that reduce the greenhouse gas footprint of hydrocarbons, is a must said Al Qahtani, and the industry should better communicate the actions it is taking and the progress that is being made.
“We need to help our stakeholders realize that we are part of the solution,” he said. With regard to C.Q., Al Qahtani said a renewed focus on cost and value would help to build and exploit a clear competitive advantage. Maximizing areas of competitive advantage and differentiation, he said, “is critical to increasing the value proposition of both our goods and services.”
In what promises to be a more competitive future, Al Qahtani said, only the very best will thrive. “Redefining resilience will redefine our future. For me, that means working as smartly on our E.Q. and C.Q. as have always done with our I.Q.,” he said. “If we do, I am confident that this great industry will continue to grow, continue to be profitable, and continue to be at the heart of human progress for generations to come.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today announced the signing of a share purchase agreement to acquire a 70% majority stake in Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) from the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia, in a private transaction for SAR 259.125 billion (or SAR 123.39 per share), which is equivalent to USD $69.1 billion. The remaining 30% publicly traded shares in SABIC are not part of the transaction, and Saudi Aramco has no plans to acquire these remaining shares. The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including regulatory approvals. Headquartered in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, SABIC has global operations in over 50 countries with 34,000 employees. In 2018, SABIC’s consolidated production volume across its various business units was 75 million metric tons, and recorded net income of USD $5.7 billion, annual sales of USD $45 billion, and total assets of USD $85 billion. H.E. Yasir Othman Al-Rumayyan, Managing Director, Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia said: “This is a win-win-win transaction and a transformational deal for three of Saudi Arabia’s most important economic entities. It will unlock significant capital for PIF’s continued long-term investment strategy, underpinning sectoral and revenue diversification for Saudi Arabia. Furthermore, it will introduce a strategic owner that can add considerable value to SABIC and all its shareholders, while capitalizing on SABIC’s strong capabilities to unlock the opportunities for growth that Saudi Aramco, a key player in energy markets around the world, can offer.” Amin Nasser, President & CEO, Saudi Aramco said: “This transaction is a major step in accelerating Saudi Aramco’s transformative downstream growth strategy of integrated refining and petrochemicals. SABIC is a world-class company with an outstanding workforce and chemicals capabilities. As part of the Saudi Aramco family of companies, together we will create a stronger, more robust business to enhance competitiveness and help meet rising demand for energy and chemicals products needed by our customers around the world.” Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Senior Vice President of Downstream, Saudi Aramco said: “Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy is focused on meeting global customer needs by securing outlets for our crude oil through the expansion and growth of our refining system and deepening its integration with petrochemicals production.  We are pursuing partnerships and acquisitions where we create long-term value, and developing groundbreaking crude-oil-to-chemicals technologies. SABIC is a good strategic fit and a solid platform to support our continued investment for future growth in petrochemicals – the fastest growing sector of oil demand.” The acquisition is in line with Saudi Aramco’s long-term strategy to drive growth through an enhanced Downstream portfolio by increasing global participated refining capacity from 4.9 million to 8-10 million barrels per day by 2030, of which 2-3 million barrels per day will be converted into petrochemical products. This Downstream portfolio will consume significant quantities of Arabian crude oil.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAddressing the International Petroleum Technology Conference (IPTC) in Beijing on March 26-28, Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said that despite the energy industry facing a “crisis of perception”, it is undergoing major transformation thanks to technological breakthroughs which help energy companies meet growing energy demand more efficiently. Nasser said these misperceptions - which relate mainly to the impact of electric vehicles and carbon emissions - challenge our ability to transition to a secure and sustainable energy future. He said: “We need to help [people] realize that oil and gas will remain vital to world energy for decades to come. We need to reassure them with our own long-term investments that the safety belt we have always provided is one they can continue to rely on.” Nasser said Saudi Aramco is, nonetheless, determined to use technology to reduce environmental impact.  He noted that Saudi Aramco is investing in its international gas business, reducing methane emissions via a zero-flaring program, developing efficient engines and fuels, pushing the boundaries of Carbon Capture, Utilization and Storage (CCUS), and shortening the conventional value chain by turning more crude oil directly into chemicals. As shown in a recent international study[1], technology has already helped Saudi Aramco to produce oil and gas with one of the lowest upstream carbon footprints in the industry. Saudi Aramco is also harnessing the power of “Fourth Industrial Revolution” (IR 4.0) technologies. Through the power of big data, predictive analytics, artificial intelligence, automation, and 3D visualization, the company is able to explore, produce, and manage its assets more safely, accurately, and cheaply than ever before. Indeed, the World Economic Forum recently recognized Uthmaniyah Gas Plant in Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province as one of its IR 4.0 “lighthouses”.  The plant is a leader in the use of advanced analytics and artificial intelligence to slash inspection time, optimize costs, and increase safety. Reflecting on the international energy landscape, Nasser pointed out that oil and gas trade flows are growing along the “Belt and Road” route spreading westwards from China. He explained: “We are building an energy bridge between Saudi Arabia and China that not only meets China’s growing needs for energy, but also the petrochemical products required for most industrial processes.” He added: “The true strength of the bridge is fast moving capital flows, dynamic energy partnerships, and strategic relationships built on mutual trust and shared vision”.

Referring to next year’s edition of IPTC, Nasser said “Saudi Aramco is proud to be the host of IPTC 2020 in less than a year, and we look forward to welcoming the global energy community to Saudi Arabia. As the heart of the global energy sector and a gateway to the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, Saudi Arabia is a prime regional center with ample and lucrative investment opportunities.” While in Beijing, CEO Amin Nasser attended the China Development Forum (CDF), an annual business gathering for China’s senior leadership and representatives from global leading businesses, international organizations, and scholars from China and around the world.  In remarks he delivered at the CDF, Nasser said that since the Forum first met 20 years ago, China’s expanded role in the global economy has been of “great benefit” to the world. He said: “China is at another milestone moment with the Belt and Road Initiative. Clearly, having adequate, reliable, affordable and clean energy will be critical to the continued development of China and the broader global economy. I believe that a pragmatic mix of cleaner oil and gas and the new and evolving energy sources will help achieve both of China’s cleaner energy and economic goals.” He added: “Saudi Aramco is ready to play a leading role as part of this strategic effort and make more investments, including in energy-related infrastructure, to ensure China – as well as all the Belt and Road partner countries – have access to reliable long-term energy supplies.” During the CDF, Nasser met with China’s Premier and Vice Premier who welcomed Saudi Aramco’s investments in an integrated downstream JV in Panjin City in Liaoning province. At the same time, China’s Premier, Li Keqiang, commended Saudi Aramco’s commitment to follow up on the project after the signing of the agreement in February during the visit of the Saudi Crown Prince to China. During HRH Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman’s visit to China last February, Saudi Aramco signed several business agreements with Chinese energy entities, including:Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today signed a land lease agreement with McDermott Arabia Company, Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of McDermott International, Inc. (NYSE: MDR), to grant McDermott a lease to establish a fabrication facility located within the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries in Ras Al-Khair, Saudi Arabia. This is pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding signed between Saudi Aramco and McDermott. The new facility will be used for large scale fabrication of offshore platforms and onshore/offshore modules. To further enhance project execution capabilities in Saudi Arabia, McDermott will also expand its in-country engineering and procurement offices, as well as establish a new marine base in the Eastern Province to support installation of offshore platforms, subsea pipelines and cables, skids, and associated structures and assemblies. “This facility will serve as a major Engineering, Procurement, Construction, and Installation (EPCI) hub for not only the Kingdom, but for the GCC region” said Ahmad Al Sa'adi, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Technical Services. “Having this facility with International Maritime Industries (IMI) in the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries offers an integrated portfolio of maritime products and services” said Mohammad Al Assaf, Saudi Aramco Vice President of New Business Development. “The localization of these capabilities will contribute to diversifying the economy, create almost 7000 jobs, and achieve a target of 60% Saudization by 2030.” Al Assaf added. The new facility in Ras Al Khair will be located near the Jubail Industrial City on the Kingdom’s east coast. It will cover an area of approximately 1,150,000m2 and will utilize cutting edge technologies to ensure world class standards in safety, quality and efficiency.  “Expanding our fabrication capacity in Saudi Arabia demonstrates McDermott’s commitment to the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 objectives,” said David Dickson, McDermott’s President and CEO. “We will establish a world class fabrication facility that enables us to better serve the needs of Saudi Aramco and other customers in Saudi Arabia and across the region,” added Linh Austin, McDermott Senior Vice President, Middle East and North Africa. At peak production, the facility will have a throughput capacity in excess of 60,000 metric tons per year.  It will localize expertise in multiple disciplines related to the industry and is expected to create a significant number of direct and indirect job opportunities in the Kingdom. Apprenticeship and training programs will also be provided to ensure that a sufficient number of qualified nationals of the Kingdom are available for hire to meet the in-Kingdom content requirements. The facility is expected to be operational by 2022.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comDistinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning once again.  It is an honor to share this CEO Plenary Session with Chairman Wang, Patrick Pouyanné, and Peter Coleman.  As I said in my earlier remarks, our industry faces a crisis of perception with our stakeholders.  In this session, I want to explore how some of those misperceptions are playing out in China and in the wider Asia region; and what we are doing at Saudi Aramco to address them.  Obviously, one of the most important pillars of our industry’s relationship with China is our enthusiastic support for President Xi’s history-making Belt and Road Initiative.  Saudi Arabia has long seen this as a win-win, given our strategic location linking east with west; because infrastructure development and connectivity are at its heart; and because collaboration and integration are essential ingredients of success – just as they are with our own Vision 2030. But in my view, the enormity of the energy equation has been underestimated by many stakeholders because of several misperceptions. Let me highlight three.
 First, the oil supply and demand theories of recent years have clouded the picture.  Just 10 years ago, the issue was peak oil supply. People were convinced that the world was running out of oil fast while demand remained robust. And we were confidently told that Saudi Aramco would have to produce 25 million barrels per day! Today, that wild theory has been demolished, and in fact forgotten. Now, some analysts see the opposite.  They see demand quickly collapsing while supply is abundant, which is why ‘stranded resources’ has become a fashionable term! The truth is almost certainly somewhere in between. But misperception has put a veil around it, directly threatening an orderly transition, a sustainable energy future, and energy security.  We need to help our stakeholders (including here in China and the wider Asia region) realize that oil and gas will remain vital to world energy for decades to come.  And we need to reassure them with our own long-term investments that the safety belt we have always provided is one they can continue to rely on. Second, we acknowledge that battery electric vehicles will play an increasing role in people’s mobility.  But it also needs to be acknowledged that we are simply moving emissions from the car to the chimney until the electricity fuel mix becomes sufficiently clean.   Even 25 years from now, coal is still projected to make up half of that mix in major economies like China and India.   The world cannot wait that long if addressing climate change truly is the priority.  Yet this clouded thinking is preventing clear action that could make a real impact right now.  So what should we do in the interim? At Saudi Aramco, we are determined to clear away the fog.  We are determined to use innovation and technology to lighten the carbon footprint of our fuel products so they are acceptable to society in the 21st century. That is why we are: 
•    building an international gas business; 
•    delivering a zero-flaring program, including the elimination of methane gas emissions; 
•    developing advanced engine and fuels technologies of the future;
•    investigating hydrogen-rich cleaner synthetic fuels, derived from oil; 
•    doing pioneering work on CCUS; 
•    and turning more crude oil directly into chemicals.Third, many stakeholders have not kept pace with how oil and gas supply and trade flows are increasingly shifting from industrialized nations (whose oil demand is flattening) to the developing nations impacted by China’s Belt and Road. That is why we are building an energy bridge between Saudi Arabia and China that not only meets China’s growing needs for oil and gas but also chemicals, LNG, and lubes, and across the entire value chain.  Furthermore, the upstream carbon footprint of our oil is among the lowest in the world, and has the lowest greenhouse gas intensity of any supplier of crude oil to China, thanks to our application of advanced reservoir management and very early adoption of Fourth Industrial Revolution technologies.   Even one of our oldest gas plants, at Uthmaniyah in Saudi Arabia’s Eastern Province, has become a leader in the use of Advanced Analytics and Artificial Intelligence solutions – cutting inspection time by 90%, reducing costs, and improving safety.   In fact, the World Economic Forum recently recognized the plant as one of its “Lighthouses” leading the way in the Fourth Industrial Revolution. But the true strength of the bridge is fast moving capital flows, dynamic energy partnerships, and strategic relationships built on mutual trust and shared visions.
 We have our world-class integrated petrochemical refinery complex in Fujian Province, in collaboration with Sinopec and ExxonMobil. Just last month, we announced the creation of a 10 billion dollar refining joint venture with Norinco and Panjin Sincen in Liaoning Province – the largest JV in China’s history with a foreign investor.  And as another sign of our deep and long-term commitment to China, our state-of-the-art Research Center here in Beijing is helping us to accelerate upstream, downstream, and climate management technologies.  I am proud to say it has attracted some of China’s brightest young researchers to these game-changing fields, and offers a template for attracting young talent more widely to our industry. That work was given a tremendous boost last November. For the first time ever, Saudi Aramco came together with a major Chinese engine manufacturer, a major Chinese petrochemicals company, and a famous Chinese university to develop advanced fuel and engine technologies that will reduce emissions.  These are all examples of Saudi Aramco moving beyond a buyer-seller relationship to one where we can make significant contributions to China’s “high quality” growth and development. They show how greater collaboration between the world’s largest energy producer and the world’s largest energy consumer is becoming irresistible. And they illustrate the pragmatism returning to the debate as nations realize that all energy sources will be required for decades to come.  Ladies and Gentlemen, I am confident that by addressing the areas I have outlined this morning, we can mitigate the crisis of perception, and further strengthen our links, and along the entire length and breadth of the Belt and Road.  And by doing so we can place our industry at the heart of these nations’ future prosperity for decades to come, and help to mitigate the risks to energy security they would otherwise have to endure.   Finally, I am sure that this year’s IPTC will set new standards for next year’s event… which I am proud to say we will be hosting in Saudi Arabia for the first time ever, near our headquarters in Dhahran.   So I look forward to your questions, and seeing you in Saudi Arabia in January!   Thank you. A powerful combination of youth and experience were in evidence at the Saudi Aramco sponsored Research and Innovation summit held by the Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA) last week.  With attendees gathered from across the world of petrochemicals, chemicals, technology, engineering and research institutions, a spirit of innovation pervaded the summit’s venue in Bahrain as young university students networked with leading professionals and researchers. The GPCA Research and Innovation summit’s inaugural address by HE Shaikh Mohammed bin Khalifa, Bahrain’s Minister of Oil and Gas, set the tone for the event. He highlighted the dynamism of the R&D that is happening in the Gulf region as it journeys toward a full-fledged ecosystem, as well as the fundamental role petrochemicals play in meeting both human wants and needs.  In particular, HE Shaikh Mohammed noted the role that the Dhahran Techno Valley and King Abdullah University of Science and Technology play in the region, however, he was keen to point out that more needs to be done to connect researchers together. He echoed the sentiments of all attendees by noting that all of the ingredients for success are present in the region, including the people, the products, and the companies. Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco’s senior vice president of Downstream, delivered the opening address for the first keynote session, “Oil-to-Chemicals — Breakthroughs in the Production of Petrochemicals.” Thanking Sheikh Mohammed for his role in fostering technical events that serve the petrochemical’s industry, Al-Judaimi went on to highlight that at the end of 2017, chemicals production capacity at Saudi Aramco sites and joint ventures reached more than 31 million tons per annum.  He emphasized that the company is working “… to become the world’s leading integrated chemicals business, and is pursuing three routes to fulfill this aspiration — leveraging existing assets, developing a global business platform, and seeking selective organic and inorganic growth.” Al-Judaimi went on to lay out both what Saudi Aramco’s downstream operations are delivering now, and the exciting future that lies ahead for the business. In particular, he highlighted the value addition created by expanding our portfolio with new products such as rubber and polyols, enhancing the offer to Saudi Aramco’s base oil customers, and establishing Saudi Aramco branded retail and lube businesses. Knowing innovation is integral to the success of Saudi Aramco’s business, Al-Judaimi outlined to summit attendees that sustaining a global research and technology presence is a major component of the company’s strategic objective. Central to that is attracting and retaining leading scientists and technologists in the upstream, downstream, and strategic domains across Saudi Aramco’s global research network. He noted the company now has more than 1,500 researchers in the company’s global research and technology centers, spread across multiple time zones. With the strong research capacity at the company’s disposal, Al-Judaimi highlighted Saudi Aramco’s investments in oil to petrochemicals, enabling the company to capture the growth opportunity in this high-value sector. He noted that the company’s efforts are being made in the context that petrochemicals are expected to be the largest driver of global oil demand; and fundamental to capturing value in petrochemicals is integration. Al-Judaimi said that by leveraging feedstock advantage and reconfiguring the conventional refining approach, crude oil to chemicals technology can achieve a higher conversion rate — 45%-50% versus the industry average of 30% — to generate greater value across the hydrocarbon value chain. Al-Judaimi went on to note the company’s work with Petronas in Malaysia and partnerships with SABIC as prime examples of Saudi Aramco’s integration strategy. Al-Judaimi highlighted that Saudi Aramco’s pioneering crude oil to chemicals technology targets a 70% crude oil to chemicals conversion rate. “If we are successful in crude to chemicals, it will transform the industry,” Al-Judaimi said.  The company’s commitment is clear. Saudi Aramco signed an agreement with CB&I and Chevron Lummus Global to accelerate, scale up, and commercialize Saudi Aramco’s Thermal Crude to Chemicals (TC2C™) technology, shifting the average conversion rate from 45% to more than 70% by 2020, while working to reduce overall energy and capital intensity.  Last year Aramco and SABIC signed an MoU to develop a fully integrated crude oil to chemicals (COTC) complex in the Kingdom. The COTC complex is expected to process 400,000 barrels per day of crude oil, which will produce approximately 9 million tons of chemicals and base oils annually. The complex is expected to start operations in 2025.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be back in Beijing and to join this panel on opening up and cooperation. When this Forum met for the first time 20 years ago, China was preparing to take a significant step by joining the WTO. We admire China’s phenomenal achievements since that time … as this country’s expanded role in the global economy has proven to be of great benefit to the world.   Not only has China opened its market … it has helped create enormous growth opportunities for developing and developed economies. Today, China is at another milestone moment with the Belt and Road Initiative. And I foresee a similar outcome … as I expect the Belt and Road Initiative to be mutually beneficial to China and to the partner countries … linking more than 60% of the world’s population.  
That will be a remarkable outcome.   Clearly, having adequate … reliable … affordable … and clean energy will be critical to the continued development of China and the broader global economy. A key area of the Belt and Road Initiative that I believe would benefit enormously by receiving greater attention is the energy equation for this far-reaching strategic blueprint.   For the record, let me reiterate that I believe oil and gas will continue to be a vital part of the energy mix both here in China … and globally for a long time to come … even as alternatives make progress, albeit starting from a very small base. I want to stress that among competing energy sources, oil and gas best meet the adequacy, reliability and affordability requirements laid down by society.  However, we also fully recognize that our industry needs to do more to significantly reduce the carbon footprint of oil and gas … and let me stress … we are fully committed to this goal. I believe that a pragmatic mix of cleaner oil and gas and the new and evolving energy sources will help achieve both of China’s cleaner energy and economic goals.  And this reality … is why lightening the carbon footprint of oil is among the highest priorities of Saudi Aramco.   Indeed, we are devoting considerable R&D time and funding to this priority … including developing ultra clean engine-fuel technologies … creating hydrogen-rich synthetic fuels derived from oil  … advancing carbon capture utilization and storage … and encouraging international cooperation through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative or OGCI … of which CNPC and Total are members. We also believe that increased cooperation between China … as the world’s largest importer of oil … and Saudi Arabia … as the world’s largest exporter of oil … will be critical to China’s energy security going forward. We are already working with multiple partners here in China. Indeed, we believe … as part of the Belt and Road Initiative … a great strategic move would be to strongly connect the oil and gas of Saudi Arabia … and more broadly the Middle East … with Belt and Road partner countries.  Saudi Aramco is ready to play a leading role as part of this strategic effort and make more investments … including in energy-related infrastructure … to ensure China … as well as all the Belt and Road partner countries … have access to reliable long-term energy supplies.  We believe that connecting countries through the Belt and Road is not just about increasing trade and business …  Rather it is about the positive impact of connecting people … connecting cultures … and helping to bring the world closer together for everyone’s mutual benefit.Ladies and Gentlemen, good afternoon and xia wu hao. Party Secretary of Liaoning Province, His Excellency Chen Qiufa, Governor of Liaoning Province, His Excellency Tang Yijun, Chairman of Norinco Group, Mr. Jiao Kaihe, and Fu Zhongwei, Party Secretary of Panjin City. There is a Chinese saying which translates to “courtesy calls for reciprocity”.  It is indeed a great pleasure to be here as we pay a return visit to our friends after your visit to Dhahran last October.  Now, as you may be aware, Saudi Aramco aspires to be the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals producer. For the purposes of today, I want to draw your attention to three elements of this aspiration that directly relate to you. The first element relates to energy supply. I believe that we are both a natural and a strategic partner of choice.  For many years, we have been a reliable supplier of oil, China’s second largest source of energy, and we stand ready to do so for many more years.  Indeed, by maintaining our sustainable production capability of 12 million barrels per day which helps to provide market stability during times of need. Indeed, supporting China’s energy security is why we are here today. By bridging the gap between our supply and our investments in China’s entire value chain, we can help meet China’s needs for tomorrow.The second element I want to highlight is our downstream strategy.
This project aligns perfectly with our own downstream strategy of becoming a global leader in refining and marketing, base lube oils, and chemicals. And it also aligns with forecasts that petrochemicals are “set to account for more than a third of the growth in oil demand to 2030, and nearly half to 2050.” On a related note, I know some of you visited our Ras Tanura refinery last October. I sincerely hope that you came away with an appreciation for Saudi Aramco’s uncompromising approach to safety, quality, efficiency, and environmental protection that defines us. All of which brings me to the third element I want to mention: people. I know we are all united in our determination to make this project a win-win for the people of Liaoning Province. Indeed, helping people prosper through higher quality, cleaner development is really at the heart of our undertaking. This project will help provide the necessary fuel supply, and power and distribution infrastructure that will in turn create new manufacturing bases, logistical hubs and technology centers. These are the solid building blocks that will better integrate regional economies and boost GDP in revitalized areas like Liaoning Province. I assure you that Saudi Aramco places as much importance on delivering for the people of China, of Liaoning Province and of Panjin City as we do for our own people in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It is who we are as a Company, wherever we operate. I am confident that Norinco and the our partners share similar values for the people of Liaoning Province and Panjin City. In return, and to use Your Excellency Governor Tang’s own recent words during our meeting in February, we know that: “Liaoning will provide the best policies, best services, and highest efficiency to this Project, the Project No.1.” By working together, I have no doubt that we will build a safe, reliable and sustainable business that will create jobs, generate revenues, and create value and prosperity for all the people involved. Ladies and Gentlemen, all of us at Saudi Aramco understand that strong relationships and cooperation at all levels are the keys to our success. That is why most of our international investments are partnerships with local companies. And I have no doubt that this will be another highly successful project. In closing, let me say we are tremendously honored to be here with you. We appreciate you spending your weekend with us, and I am confident that our visit will truly help our relationship to blossom further. Thank you, and xie xie.Saudi Aramco is proud to be a strategic partner of the ‘Roads of Arabia’, an exhibition covering the historical and cultural development of the Arabian Peninsula – opened in Athens, Greece.  ‘Roads of Arabia: Archeological Treasures of Saudi Arabia’, is a joint initiative of Saudi Aramco’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (iThra) and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage (SCTH). Opened March 20th, at Athen’s Benaki Museum, the exhibition was inaugurated by Minister of Culture and Sports of Greece, Her Excellency, Myrsini Zorba and H.E. Ahmed Al-Khatib, President of the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage. Fahad K. Al-Dhubaib, Saudi Aramco General Manager for Public Affairs commented: “To date, Roads of Arabia, has been on its own journey. Travelling to some 10 countries and over 16 cities enabling more than five million people to view these rare artifacts.  Exhibits like Roads of Arabia is only one example of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to cultivate the creative industry. Another is Ithra, which has inspired more than half a million visitors since it opened to public nine month ago.  Roads of Arabia, unveils  the rich history of trade and deep culture of the Arabian Peninsula. ” Featuring important archaeological relics illustrating the depth of the Arab civilization and its history of more than one million years, the exhibition features over 466 archaeological pieces selected from the National Museum in Riyadh, the King Saud University Museum, among others. The relics cover the prehistoric and pre-Islamic times, the early, middle, and late Arabian kingdoms and civilizations, and the Islamic period, until the establishment of the modern day Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.Considered one of the most important Saudi exhibitions, Roads of Arabia has already visited several European countries, as well as the United States, since launching in 2010. Launched for the first time in Europe at the Louvre Museum, Paris (February, 2010), it went on to La Caixa Foundation in Barcelona (Spain), then the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg (Russia), and the Pergamon Museum, Berlin (Germany).

Back in 2012, the exhibition visited US institutions such as the Sakler Museum, Washington DC, followed by the Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh, then the Fine Art Museum in Houston, Texas, followed by the Nelson Atkins Museum of Art in Kansas City, Missouri, and finally the Asian Arts Museum in San Francisco.

In Asia, the exhibition was first hosted by the National Museum in Beijing in 2016, followed by the National Museum in Seoul, South Korea, before heading to the National Museum Tokyo followed by the Louvre Museum Abu Dhabi. Across its previous international tours, Roads of Arabia has attracted over 5 million visitors around the world.

The Athens exhibition officially opens to the public on March 21st, running until May 25th.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comAt Aramco’s premises in Dhahran, a remodeled and vastly expanded office wing has been converted into a 4IR Center, where technological and digital innovation is, in turn, transforming the way in which the company runs its operations. In a global economy that is increasingly leveraging the opportunities afforded by what is known as the ‘Fourth Industrial Revolution’ (4IR), it is essential for industry to tap into the many opportunities and possibilities contained within it. Lagging behind is simply not an option, and Saudi Aramco is effectively blazing a trail in the energy industry with its targeted strategic focus on cutting-edge digital technology. The 4IR Center will play a pivotal role in uplifting the technical skills of our workforce and bringing advanced technology capabilities to realize the company’s digital transformation vision. The center will help the company’s operational performance to enable greater efficiencies and significant cost savings, and help further strengthen our global leadership in the oil and gas industry.   “We are excited about the potential of the center. It will play a key role in accelerating the digital transformation across Saudi Aramco, be pivotal in enabling a paradigm shift for our operations through more digital technologies, while unlocking new business and operating models,” says Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, senior vice president of Technical Services With its advanced capabilities, extensive access to information, and people-centric environment, the center is a digital transformation ecosystem for digital solutions throughout the hydrocarbon value chain. It is designed to support the end-to-end use case development throughout its ideation, prototyping, piloting, and full-scale deployment.  Some 2,500 square meters of office space was remodeled in the construction process. The facility features 279 square meters of video walls, with a total of more than 109 million pixels pitch that split into multiple clusters and zones. Visitors are welcomed by a “V-receptionist” hologram that provides safety instructions and gives an overview of the center. At the heart of the center is the futuristic circular bright space of the Artificial Intelligence (AI) Hub, which is ringed by a massive concave video screen on which over 20 operational solutions are displayed. It is one of the biggest screens of its kind in the world.  The AI Hub is focused on developing advanced analytics and machine learning solutions in hydrocarbon related applications. The big data and advanced analytics make use of the innovative solutions in this domain to visualize and predict the performance of critical Saudi Aramco assets. This hub combines in-house development and external tools to enable our subject matter experts to make timely decisions to improve asset availability, utilization, and efficiency. The value and cost savings realized from these solutions underlines the significant impact on our operations and business. Next to the AI Hub is the “VR Zone,” which is used to develop, prototype, and train for augmented and virtual reality, among other capabilities. This hub can be used to visualize plant assets and to get a live sense of the plant experience from a simulation booth.  The center also has the capability demonstrating operational use cases of air, ground, and underwater robots through the “UAV Space.” This section combines cutting-edge technologies that supports a variety of different applications — including methane detection, emergency response, inspection services, project monitoring, inventory management and many others — to reduce cost, enhance efficiency, and improve health, safety, and environment.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco’s participation paves the way for domestic and international investors to enhance national economy diversification programs Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser highlights Saudi Aramco’s sustainable programs for the enhancement of the Kingdom’s economic development and diversification, and noted its pivotal role in enhancing domestic energy industries and their supporting services.  Through its participation in the two-day Al-Hasa Investment Forum organized by Al-Hasa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Saudi Aramco aims to pave the way for increased domestic and international investment, promote the national economic diversification programs and create more job opportunities in alignment with Saudi Vision 2030. Al-Hasa Investment Forum kicked off today under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Amir of Eastern Province; with the attendance of HH Prince Badr bin Muhammad bin Jalawi Al Saud, Governor of Al-Hasa and Head of the Higher Committee organizing the forum; H.E. the Minister of Energy and Mineral Resources, Khalid Al-Falih; and Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO. Mr. Al-Nasser said that the growth prospects of Al-Hasa within Saudi Vision 2030 are promising. Placing Al-Hasa on the UNESCO list of World Heritage and its selection as the Capital of Arab Tourism 2019 are testimony that these achievements generate positive movement on several levels and enhance the attractiveness of Al-Hasa.
In the field of localization of industries and services, Nasser said that the company has recently commenced the establishment of King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), located between Al-Hasa and Dammam. This mega project and pioneering park will be an ideal environment for attracting local and global investments and for creating more jobs for Saudi people. Nasser mentioned that Al-Hasa has a wealth of resources of unconventional gas that includes a high percentage of liquids, and that Saudi Aramco is currently developing these resources.  "As part of Saudi Aramco's investment plan, we will start a new phase of the Jafura gas plant construction next year. This is a huge plant that will produce sales gas, ethane, condensate and natural gas liquids. The plant is part of Saudi Aramco's plan to produce 3 billion standard cubic feet of unconventional gas over the next decade,” he said. Nasser also announced Saudi Aramco’s plans to establish a large and modern women driving school in Al-Mubarraz. The center is expected to train several thousand women candidate drivers annually. It will be managed by qualified Saudi women, and it will train both Saudi Aramco female employees and Saudi women in general. Saudi Aramco, through its exhibition stand, highlighted investment opportunities in energy related services.  A special section with relevant guidelines for investors wishing to invest in Saudi Aramco operations was provided.  The section promoted the goals of the In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (IKTVA), which enhances localization, reduce costing, build a world-class supply chain and strengthen the Company’s potential to fulfil its commitments to its customers around the world. Al-Hasa Investment Forum is a platform for enhancing investment in Al-Hasa through highlighting investment opportunities in the public and private sectors as well as shedding light on its key components and comparative advantages.  Participants will discuss investment opportunities in energy industry; conversion industries; healthcare; housing and real estate development; education and training; and the overall investment climate in Al-Hasa.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco’s leading role in energy innovation was on full display at CERAWeek 2019 in Houston as the company’s technology strategists and researchers discussed their latest solutions and spoke about the path forward for new technologies to drive sustainability in the industry. Saudi Aramco chief technology officer Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter spoke on a panel called “Digital Transformation: Creating Value,” and another titled “The Quiet ICE (Internal Combustion Engine) Revolution. New Tech Driving New Directions.” Al-Khowaiter told the audience that software advancements using artificial intelligence, big data, and predictive analytics have shown great promise in certain cases. To scale these applications across enterprises, companies must further develop the digital skills of workers and change work flows so that front-line personnel are constantly encouraged to test new tools in their jobs, he said. “Freeing up data to flow across silos and to fully leverage it will allow the Fourth Industrial Revolution (IR 4.0) to flourish,” said Al-Khowaiter. Al-Khowaiter also spoke about the need for governments to ensure a sound policy environment that adequately addresses climate challenges. Looking at carbon emissions through a more holistic “wells-to-wheels” lens can help create better policy outcomes — especially when it comes to evaluating various transport technologies, he said. Given the consensus among all major forecasts that ICEs will make up the overwhelming majority of the world’s light-duty vehicle fleet for decades to come, the development of cleaner burning engines would reduce emissions faster and more economically than trying to switch fleets around the world to electric vehicles, he said. Saudi Aramco’s research centers are developing new engines that boost fuel economy 30% or more, and reduce particulate emissions to nearly zero. “We see ourselves as being a catalyst that brings together energy companies and automakers so that important advancements can be made by conducting innovative research on new fuels and new engines simultaneously,” said Al-Khowaiter. Bashir M. Dabbousi, director of Technology Strategy and Planning with Saudi Aramco, spoke on a panel called “The New Energy Transition: Opportunities in Clean Tech?” 
Dabbousi discussed how the company is focusing much of its resources on developing low greenhouse gas emissions technologies and converting crude oil directly to chemicals, as well as leading investments in cleaner technologies through Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures and the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) — which held its second venture day on industrial and transport efficiency during CERAWeek.  He also explained the company’s long history of lowering the carbon intensity of its crude production by achieving near zero flaring intensity, using best-in-class reservoir management practices and technologies, and driving for massive energy efficiency improvements across all of its operations. Dabbousi also spoke at an engaging roundtable discussion titled “What Does the Hydrogen Transportation Economy Look Like?” Participants debated the prospect of hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles supplanting battery electric vehicles. He also noted that hydrogen powered vehicles can offer drivers longer ranges and shorter refueling times than battery powered vehicles. Saudi Aramco, he said, is partnering to build the Kingdom’s first hydrogen fueling station for cars this year, adding that hydrogen may have better prospects than batteries for a range of low-carbon transport applications. “Compared to batteries, hydrogen appears much easier to scale for use in heavy-duty trucks or trains. And the good thing about hydrogen is that it is plentiful and can easily be isolated from hydrocarbons,” Dabbousi told the audience.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comLadies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be back at MEOS.   I’d like to thank not only our organizers and our Bahraini hosts, but also my colleagues, Paal and Lorenzo, for sharing their thoughts  on this morning’s topic.  
And that is: the evolving nature of what “resilience” means to our industry.  
Because the enablers of our profitability, adaptability and sustainability – the enablers of “resilience” – are being redefined.
Much like the energy landscape itself.  
While renewables and alternative fuel sources continue to make progress, their ability to meet a sizeable portion of growing global  energy demand is decades, if not generations, down the road.  
We can be confident that oil and gas will continue to play a vital role for the foreseeable future. 
But to sustain this industry we must increase our value proposition for society, particularly as alternatives become more affordable.  
So what does a successful oil and gas company of the future look like?  
In a word, I believe it must be “smarter.”
But I don’t mean solely in terms of technology.  
Engineering, earth sciences, managing mega-projects – this is our wheelhouse – our “I.Q.” if you will.  
But I believe we must also develop stronger emotional intelligence, or “E.Q.”, to better understand and meet society’s expectations. 
And a renewed focus on cost and competitive advantage is imperative – our “C.Q.” 
So let me explore these three measures of a “smarter” energy company.  First, our I.Q. 
Our industry has a unique and historic opportunity to be at the epicenter of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  
In fact, I am proud to say Saudi Aramco was working in the Fourth Industrial Revolution years before the World Economic Forum coined  the term!  
For instance, one of our oldest gas plants, at Uthmaniyah, has become a leader in the use of Advanced Analytics and AI solutions.  
This has helped us cut inspection time by 90%, reduce cost, improve safety.
In fact, WEF recently recognized the plant as one of its “Lighthouses” leading the way in Industry 4.0.  
And the only one from oil and gas. 
I mention this because, as an industry, we have massive amounts of data from seismic, production, mechanical and electrical functions.  
A single drilling rig or gas plant can generate terabytes of data every single day.  
But we tap into only a very small fraction of it.  
By applying new technologies to data we are already generating, we can change the game.  
In exploration, for instance, Machine Learning and AI can sift through vast amounts of 3D and 4D seismic data to extract features invisible  to the human eye. 
Or more ambitiously, in drilling, we should settle for nothing short of fully-automated drilling rigs to increase performance, safety  and efficiency.  
So as an industry we must reclaim our passion for innovation.  
Because there are technologies within our reach that are turning science fiction into science fact.  
So what’s holding us back?
Certainly, market turbulence has had a chilling effect on investment.  
In field development, investments are mostly in short-cycle, smaller projects.  While in R&D, they are mostly in incremental improvements  with quick payouts. 
We must reverse this trend. 
Because I believe lagging investment is the greatest single threat to our future success.  
Complicating matters, we tend to keep our problems to ourselves.  
But that won’t cut it in the 4.0 space, where innovation comes from collaboration, not isolation. 
Breakthroughs come when we blur the lines. 
Whether it’s a full-scale test deployment with a leading robotics company, or a simple collaboration with a university on a difficult  algorithm, we must transform our industry by working together.   Next, our E.Q. – our emotional intelligence.  
A successful energy company of the future must be seen as contributing to human advancement… 
A company focused not only on shareholders, but also our broader stakeholders … from consumers and employees, to suppliers, governments,  regulators, and communities.  
Clearly this applies to climate change, where we must have a healthier and more productive dialogue with the public.  
Obviously, that means we must be actively committed as an industry to delivering technologies that reduce the GHG footprint of hydrocarbons.  
But as well as a big push on R&D, we must also be better at communicating the actions we are taking and the progress we are making.  
That we are as concerned about the world we leave our grandchildren and their grandchildren as anyone. 
Doing so can correct the misperception that our industry is simply “part of the problem” on climate change.  And help our stakeholders  realize we are part of the solution. 
A big part – as we are starting to see with the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, and the efforts that individual companies are making  in areas such as engine efficiencies, CCUS, reduced flaring and so on. Finally, our C.Q. – our focus on cost and value. 
A successful energy company will build and exploit a clear competitive advantage. 
We know technology is a differentiator.  
But it is not the only one.  
For a service company, a renewed focus on efficiency and cost leadership, with a higher quality of service, will offer success where  others fall behind. 
Maximizing areas of competitive advantage and differentiation is critical to increasing the value proposition of both our goods and  our services, in relation to alternatives whose costs are on a downward trajectory.
Because, in a more competitive future, only the very best will thrive. 
Ladies and gentlemen, redefining resilience will redefine our future.   
For me, that means working as smartly on our E.Q. and C.Q. as we have always done with our I.Q. 
If we do, then I am confident that this great industry will continue to grow, continue to be profitable, and continue at the heart  of human progress for generations to come. 
Finally, I must take the opportunity to mention next year’s International Petroleum Technology Conference. 
Like MEOS, IPTC is a great opportunity to pool our thinking on the technology challenges we face as industry. 
And, for the first time ever, IPTC 2020 will take place at the other end of the causeway in Saudi Arabia. 
We have extended the deadline for abstracts to the end of this month, and we look forward to seeing you all in Saudi next January for  an historic IPTC. Thank you.Held for the third time in Saudi Arabia, the 25-year-old “Symposium and Exhibition on Environmental Progress in the Petroleum & Petrochemical Industry” hosted by the Environmental Technology & Management Association, gathers the oil and gas, and petrochemicals sectors for an interactive symposium and commercial exhibition. The event’s patron, HRH Prince Saud ibn Nayef ibn ‘Abd al-’Aziz Al Sa’ud, Governor of the Eastern Province, honored the occasion by attending the opening ceremony, which was held to a packed audience of environmental and engineering professionals, executives, and government officials. Omar S. Abdulhamid, Petro Environment 2019 chairman and Saudi Aramco Environmental Protection Department (EPD) manager, said environmental sustainability was increasingly important for ensuring continuous global and regional development. “The symposium is focusing on the role of innovative solutions, technological advancements, sharing best practices and fostering partnership among various stakeholders to address environmental challenges and support sustainability objectives,” said Abdulhamid.  Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Technical Services Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi delivered the opening ceremony’s keynote address. “Climate change presents a grand challenge for the oil and gas industry in addressing the ambitious targets set by the 2015 Paris Agreement, by delivering energy to satisfy global economic growth while reducing greenhouse gas emissions and mitigating the climate change impact.” Al Sa’adi said Saudi Aramco had a strategic focus on the future and was facilitating a diverse low carbon future through initiatives such as manufacturing chemicals from crude oil, deploying nonmetallic materials into its operations, breathtaking technologies for higher transport efficiency, and the conversion of carbon dioxide (CO2) into valuable products.  Citing the company’s flagship innovations in carbon reduction, such as the Master Gas System, energy efficiency, and flaring reduction, he stated: “Saudi Arabia has one of the lowest flaring intensities in the world, which additionally contributes significantly to greenhouse gas emission avoidances. Saudi Aramco’s massive operating areas are often home to significant patches of high quality habitats, including threatened and migratory species.  
By safeguarding these valuable natural resources, the company helps to fortify the Kingdom’s biodiversity for future generations, replenish land and marine ecosystems, and provide a seed source for reducing desertification Kingdomwide. Petro Environment 2019 combined two events under one roof — an interactive symposium for strategic and technical topics, and a commercial exhibition where companies can showcase their expertise and services. As a principle sponsor of Petro Environment 2019, Saudi Aramco had a booth that exhibited the company’s inspirational environmental protection efforts with an emphasis on topics related to carbon management and climate change, air monitoring, marine pollution, wastewater treatment and reuse, groundwater, and occupational and public health. Visitors were warmly welcomed, and treated to stunning video displays of the company’s tree plantings, reintroduced graceful gazelles, and underwater ocean floors being nurtured. Hundreds of attendees representing governments, universities, private companies, as well as the public, visited the booth to learn more about the company’s initiatives and projects. Petro Environment 2019 was addressed by 112 experts, delivered 80 presentations and 35 poster papers, displayed more than 40 exhibition stands, and was supported by the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, Saudi Aramco, General Presidency of Meteorology and Environment Protection and Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu’, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals, Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University, Prince Mohammad bin Fahd University, and Al-Asala University.  More information about the 'Environmental Technology and Management Association'Saudi Aramco is participating in the Geneva International Motor Show for the first time to showcase a number of transport technologies that have the potential to significantly enhance efficiency and reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions. This participation is in line with the Company’s active efforts to improve the efficiency of energy use in the transport sector, in particular, by improving the environmental performance of internal combustion engines.  The suite of innovative technologies that Saudi Aramco will be showcasing at the event have been developed by Saudi Aramco’s global research teams in collaboration with leading car manufacturers and technology developers. Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Saudi Aramco’s Chief Technology Officer, welcomed the opportunity to highlight the Company’s research and development efforts in the transport sector. “As the internal combustion engine will continue to power global transport for decades to come, we believe that investing in improving engine technology is essential for any substantial reduction of the transport sector’s environmental footprint.” Al-Khowaiter said. “We believe that simultaneous development of engines and fuels will unlock tremendous potential for improving engine efficiency, and we look forward to showcasing some of the promising innovations that our teams are developing,” he added. The technologies that will be on display by Saudi Aramco include Gasoline Compression Ignition, Opposed-Piston, and Turbulent Jet Ignition. The Company will also showcase its On-board Carbon Capture technology. Held from March 7 to 17, the Geneva International Motor Show is one of the top five motor shows in the world, bringing together the world’s leading automotive players and highlighting their latest technological innovations. Saudi Aramco’s global transport research encompasses a network of centers in Dhahran, Paris, Detroit and Beijing. The research teams within these centers work collaboratively with partners in academia and the industry on a number of technologies, including advanced internal combustion engine concepts, after-treatment solutions and hybrid powertrain systems.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comYour Excellency, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, good morning. It is a pleasure to join you as part of the International Women’s Day celebrations happening around the world this week. I am pleased to see so many of our key partners represented today. Collectively, I am confident we can make a difference when it comes to diversity. As the CEO of Saudi Aramco, I want to take a moment to acknowledge the many talented and capable women from Aramco who are here. Thank you for everything that you do for our Company. Each and every day you bring a solid work ethic and valuable skills to your respective jobs and Saudi Aramco is better because of you. Also, as the father of two daughters who are relatively new to the workforce, I need to thank all the women here today. Thank you for the inspiration you provide to young women in the Kingdom. Now, as we celebrate International Women’s Day, I know there are people here who are less than satisfied with the pace of progress for women in the workplace. I can understand why. I am not satisfied either. The energy sector as a whole is in need of a better gender balance. The recent 2019 Global Energy Talent Index Report goes so far as to declare that there is a “chronic shortage” of women in our industry. Personally, I am also not satisfied with the current percentage of females in Saudi Aramco. The Company is considered a pioneer for women in the workplace in the Kingdom, but we still need to make more progress. That said, I am optimistic that there is a bright future ahead for females in the oil and gas industry in general and at Saudi Aramco in particular. I am optimistic because what was once largely seen as being impossible, is proving to be possible.At Aramco, we now have female petroleum engineers working out in the field and in plants, providing solutions to complicated production challenges. We have female scientists in our R&D centers conducting potentially future-transforming research on everything from storing CO2 in cement to directly converting crude oil to chemicals in just one single step. We have female inventors coming up with revolutionary new processes and products. And at last count, women working at Saudi Aramco have filed more than 180 patents in recent years. We have female traders selling our oil and refined petroleum products to customers around the world. We even have internationally certified female firefighters – the first in the Kingdom – women who, in addition to being engineers, have completed the rigorous training necessary to qualify as professional firefighters.We also have a female board member as well as female managers and General Managers serving in various leadership positions across the company. But, I am going to be honest with you. While Saudi Aramco has made solid progress in the last couple of years, we still have a lot of work to do. And that is why we are recruiting more talented and qualified females than ever before. In 2018, we hired twice as many females as we did in 2017 and more than half of these new female hires last year were in STEM-related roles. I have no doubt that this positive trend will result in a substantial transformation of our workforce. Going forward, we will see more women holding more roles at all levels at Saudi Aramco. I also firmly believe that advancements in Artificial Intelligence and other areas of technology will open up multiple doors of opportunity for women in the workforce. For example, I fully expect to see women play a key role in fields like cyber-security in the years ahead. To anyone who might doubt the ability of women to excel in such specialized IT roles, I have two words: Hajj Hackathon. Saudi Aramco was a sponsor of this hackathon event last July in Jeddah. And the winners – who beat out some 3,000 other participants from around the world – were an all-female team from Saudi Arabia. Clearly, there has been progress in the energy industry and also elsewhere in the Kingdom. The recent appointment of the first-ever female Saudi Ambassador should create even more momentum and provide further inspiration. What is also clear, however, is that it will not be easy moving the diversity needle further along – from impossible, to possible, all the way to commonplace. For the oil and gas sector as a whole, a critical challenge is overcoming the misperception that the industry is a dead-end career for women. As the Global Energy Talent Index Report also notes: attracting more women to jobs in the energy sector is an obvious way to address the skills gap facing our industry. For companies in general, the challenge will be to find ways to better balance the gender diversity within the talent pipeline. Saudi Aramco, for its part, is actively encouraging young women to enter the STEM educational stream and we are currently sponsoring some 300 females who are pursuing STEM-related degrees. We are also working to promote gender diversity beyond Saudi Aramco through organizations like GROW, through initiatives such as the country’s first Women’s Business Park and through partnerships like the one we have with GE and Tata that created the first all-female Business Process Service Center in Riyadh. As for people in leadership, the challenge ahead will be to continue to eliminate the barriers that hinder the ability of women to excel once they are in the workforce. This includes providing both professional and personal support for women – everything from dedicated career advancement programs to expanding daycare services that make work-life balance better. A key challenge for women, is not to get too discouraged by the pace of change. In fact, let me conclude by speaking directly to the women in the audience on this very point. Men, you are also welcome to listen along! To the women here today, you are likely going to continue to encounter people at work who say to you: “just be patient”. I want to be perfectly clear that I am not telling you to be patient. Rather I am telling you to be prepared. Be prepared for when more barriers come down in your workplace. Be prepared for new job opportunities from new and evolving technology. Also be prepared to compete for advancement on the basis of merit, as this will continue to be the foundation of any strong company. And be prepared to mentor other women – and also men! Be prepared to be a role model for those who will follow in your footsteps. Ultimately, like the pioneering women who have come before you, be prepared to be persistent.Representatives from Saudi Aramco, Halliburton, Sadara, Fluor, and the Royal Commission of Jubail recently gathered to mark the groundbreaking of a manufacturing plant to be built by Halliburton at the ethylene oxide/propylene oxide (EO/PO) cluster of the PlasChem Value Park at Jubail Industrial City II. The new facility — expected to be operational by the end of 2020 — will be the first specialty oil field chemicals manufacturing reaction plant in Saudi Arabia, and will initially create approximately 100 jobs. Engineering, procurement, and construction (EPC) of the plant will be carried out by the Fluor Corporation, which was awarded the contract in the last quarter of 2018, after completing the front end engineering and design of the facility. Fluor will lead the EPC work from its offices in al-Khobar. “Today is about looking forward,” said Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Upstream, elaborating on how the project and those that follow will be drivers in transforming the Kingdom’s economy. “As the Kingdom continues to expand and diversify its economy in line with Saudi Vision 2030, it is projects like this that brings this vision to reality. These types of projects will transform Saudi Arabia from being an importer of specialty products to an exporter.” Halliburton will manufacture process treatment chemicals at the facility, which in turn will be sold primarily to Saudi Aramco for use in upstream and downstream drilling and extraction activities. Production will be fueled by a steady supply of EO and PO from Sadara via an extensive pipeline network currently under construction. The network — comprising two 7-kilometer special material pipelines — is designed to distribute products to multiple customers within the cluster, and is expected to be completed alongside the new plant’s commissioning in 2020. The manufacturing of these specialty products in the Kingdom also contributes to the goal of meeting the key benchmark of Saudi Aramco’s iktva program, designed to boost local employment. “This will be done with Saudi talent in line with iktva’s 70% benchmark,” said Al Qahtani. “To date, we have achieved an overall localized content level of 51%. Working to reach our goal, the support of partners such as Halliburton, through projects like this, is a clear sign of the commitment that will get us there. This project is a win-win-win for Saudi Aramco, Halliburton, and the Kingdom.” The 12-square-kilometer (4.6 square-mile) industrial park in Jubail-II, situated adjacent to Sadara, SATORP, and the future SATORP II expansion (Amiral), is one of the Kingdom’s dedicated downstream chemicals and conversion industrial parks. The development of PlasChem is led by the Royal Commission of Jubail, with the support of multiple stakeholders including Sadara, together with its shareholders Saudi Aramco and Dow Chemicals, as well as other government entities. PlasChem is envisioned to house and provide services to numerous downstream conversion industries ranging from reactive chemicals, polyurethanes, paints and coatings, and the diverse world of plastics.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco’s Renewables Department recently held an awareness meeting for students from five schools in the Eastern Province.  The goal of the meeting was to introduce renewable energy to inspire the students who have a desire to work in this field. Approximately 100 students attended the meeting, which included a number of presentations to introduce renewable energy, its sources, and the means of exploiting it. A pair of interactive activities were held that allowed the students to assemble and operate a wind powered turbine. They also participated in a workshop in which they expressed their opinions regarding renewable energy sources applications in the world. The students then toured the Energy Exhibit at King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (Ithra) and got acquainted with the history and details of the energy industry in the Kingdom.  Abdulkarim A. Al-Ghamdi, vice president of Power Systems, welcomed the students, describing them as makers of the future and stressing that the renewable energy program is the first-of-its-kind, and is part of Saudi Aramco’s contributions to serving society. He said Saudi Aramco’s initiatives in renewable energy are key enablers for the Saudi Vision 2030, and are aligned to support the Kingdom’s strategic transformation. In 2023, the Kingdom is expected to produce 23 gigawatts (GW) of power from renewable energy sources, and 60 GW by 2030. The Kingdom also plans to invest in manufacturing solar panels, wind turbines, and geothermal energy from deep underground.  “Saudi Aramco is a pioneer investor in renewable energy inside the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,” Al-Ghamdi said. He noted that the company’s Al-Midra building in Dhahran is supplied with energy through solar panels — the largest building supplied by renewable energy in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. In addition, Saudi Aramco is among the first to invest in wind turbines in the Turaif Governorate that produces around 2 GW, supplying 2,000 houses with energy.  “A promising and bright future is awaiting our Kingdom,” said Muhammad Al-Harbi, acting manager of the Renewables Department. “I was impressed by the students’ questions about renewable energy. I am more confident now that such students will have a role to play in renewable energy investments. The future is promising in both directions — renewable energy investments and these talented youths.”  Waleed S. Al-Qahtani, head of the Project Engineering Division, said the program will continue to attract other schools from various cities in the Kingdom as the company seeks to introduce students to renewable energy.  Students at the Prince Sa’ud Educational Complex said the meeting was a rich experience that they will relay to their families and friends as it answered many of their questions about this topic. One student said: “The meeting had an impact on my choices regarding university study. Now I am determined to pursue my study in this vital field.” Ahmad Al-Zahrani from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM) said he thought that renewable energy was used on a limited basis and that he had never seen a turbine, other than the miniature turbine on display at KFUPM. “Only today have I known that in the Kingdom, specifically in Turaif, there is a turbine facing the wind to produce energy to provide homes with electricity.”  Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comBy Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning.  Let me first thank Malcolm Brinded for that kind introduction and his efforts in building a closer relationship between Saudi Aramco and the Energy Institute.   This impressive organization is a valuable platform to bring the industry closer together to define and shape our shared future.  Before I look ahead to that future, let me briefly look back.  Our industry should be proud of the pivotal and sustained contribution to the global economy and people’s lives, around the world, day after day for over a century.  Two billion more people today have access to ample, affordable, and reliable sources of energy than even just a generation ago. It has lifted them out of poverty, enabling them to enjoy the essentials of modern life that people in developed countries take for granted. The scale required to achieve this is equally staggering and inspiring. Last year alone, oil and liquids demand hit 100 million barrels per day for the first time in history.  And once again this inspirational industry rose to meet that demand – affordably and reliably.  Despite this historic success, there is a worrying and growing belief among policy makers and regulators, investment houses, NGOs, and many others that we are an industry with little or no future.  A recent survey revealed that the energy sector faces greater reputational challenges than any other.  The full extent was brought home to me when I was in Davos last month.  One senior financial figure I spoke to confidently predicted the end of our industry in about five years! Another was slightly less pessimistic – but he speculated that most vehicles on the road would be electric in five to 10 years, when today they account for less than half a percent! In other words, important stakeholders believe that the entire world will soon run on anything… but oil!  These views are not based on logic and facts, and are formed mostly in response to pressure and hype.  But they are sincerely held.  And our stakeholders are clearly tuning out.   They are not hearing us when we say that passenger vehicles are only 20% of the world’s oil demand.  Or that the remaining 80% is used by sectors like planes, ships, trucks, petrochemicals, and lubes for which there is no alternative yet and where demand for oil is expected to increase substantially.  They do not recognize a world where alternatives such as solar and wind, although growing rapidly (including in Saudi Arabia), still account for just 2% of primary energy demand today. The intermittent nature of renewables does not seem to be a concern either, or the ongoing need for proven and reliable electricity generation capacity as back-up, much of it fueled by gas. There is very little thought given to the massive global energy infrastructure that would need to be transformed in every corner of the world, costing trillions of dollars, bearing in mind under-developed countries that cannot afford expensive technologies.  And people gloss over the reality that today, in many countries, more electric vehicles means more coal-powered vehicles.  In fact, in some of the world’s most populated countries, up to three-quarters of electricity is generated by coal!  In other words, my encounters in Davos showed me that fewer and fewer of our stakeholders accept logic and facts, least of all from us. We are therefore facing what I would call a crisis of perception…  With multiple stakeholders… And because it threatens our industry’s very relevance, it puts our ability to supply ample, reliable, and affordable energy to billions around the world at risk, which in turn risks their energy security. Only recently, we saw what a supply deficit of a couple of million barrels per day can do to the oil market.  Imagine what 20 million barrels fewer per day would do – which would be the shortfall in five years if investments stopped today. And the impact would be even more profound for economies, societies, and people if demand continues to grow over the next five years, as we expect.  Ironically, higher oil prices would cause much less pain to us than most.  But they would only reinforce the perception that many have of our industry as profiteering, and it would certainly not be in anyone’s long-term interests. So how do we deal with this perception crisis?I see five areas that demand our urgent, collective effort. First, we need to articulate a future for our industry that shows we clearly understand society’s expectations and share their concerns.  Very simply put, society demands ample, affordable, reliable, and cleaner energy.  Our industry is already delivering tangible solutions at scale that are way ahead of the alternatives in these first three areas. For Saudi Aramco, recent scientific studies have also shown that our oil has among the lowest carbon intensities of any in the world. So we have a pivotal and leading contribution to reducing emissions.  The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative is another collective industry stride in the right direction, as are the efforts that companies including Saudi Aramco are making – for example, our work on ultra clean engine-fuel systems of the future and CCUS.  But these efforts are nowhere near enough to bridge the expectation gap.  And time is not on our side Second, we need to show society that we truly embrace our social responsibilities.  There are safety and environmental issues – real and perceived – that could derail our entire industry.  So we must intensify our existing focus on the Environmental, Social, and Governance aspects of our business to be relevant to society’s expectations today. For all of us, that means creating employment in local communities where we do business, localizing goods and services, and encouraging workforce diversity.  And at all levels of operation, it means being ahead of other industries when it comes to business ethics, codes of conduct, compliance, and internal controls, backed by effective oversight and accountability.   In short, we must show our stakeholders that their values and ours align, wherever we operate, if we want to be treated as relevant.  Third, all of us here know that innovation and technology have been the key to our industry’s regular reinventions.  But millennials do not see us that way.  Nor are they motivated as much by money; they are driven by mission and meaning.  
We need to inspire them with the incredible possibilities of Energy 4.0 – powering our industry to be Smarter, Greener, Faster, Safer, and above all still affordable, coupled with the technology-driven enablers we are contributing to address some of the world’s greatest challenges. Technology has already enabled Saudi Aramco to produce oil and gas with one of the lowest upstream carbon footprints in the industry. It has also enabled our Uthmaniyah Gas Plant to be recognized by the World Economic Forum as a Lighthouse factory – the only one from the global oil and gas industry.  And it is technology that will enable car manufacturers to reduce carbon emissions, utilizing a combination of highly efficient internal combustion engines and ultra clean fuels – with enormous potential still ahead.  It is technology that will capture the carbon, turn it into valuable products, and in the process move oil toward near-zero or break-even carbon emissions.  It is technology that will find new, high efficiency uses for oil such as blue hydrogen – vanquishing all the battery-related problems plaguing EVs.  Fourth, when it comes to attracting investment, facts and logic are more important than ever.  We should remind stakeholders that oil and gas is responsible for much of today’s economic growth, and indeed future growth.  We should also remind them that, despite being a much smaller proportion of the S&P500, energy pays twice the dividends of tech.   And we must push back on exaggerated theories like peak oil demand.  Another key element in changing perceptions is introducing the world to new, cleaner, and more beneficial ways of consuming oil that will help us to maximize the economic use of this incredibly valuable resource.  For example, if we crack crude-to-chemicals technology it could transform the role of oil as a highly competitive petrochemical feedstock.  We also see huge potential in producing advanced materials from oil for use in a range of high growth industries, and that includes the EV market! Fifth, we need to change the way we connect.  
As engineers, our natural inclination is to simply talk numbers or share data, but that will always be the least persuasive approach. Emotional appeals to our audiences, using compelling stories, are far more powerful.  So let’s tell the story of our determination to reduce emissions and carbon intensity for future generations (and the progress we are making) and help people to see that we are actually on the same side.  Let’s tell it to our stakeholders in their own backyards. And let’s tell the whole story.  For example, while lower emissions capture the headlines, we need to be better at explaining why efficiency gains are just as relevant. A joint study by the International Transport Forum, IEA, and United Nations Environment Program concluded that the mileage efficiency of the global car fleet can be increased by 50% simply by incremental improvements to conventional engines, by weight reduction, and better aerodynamics.  Similarly, while the global economy is going to double in size by 2040, energy demand is expected to only grow by a quarter due to energy efficiency improvement.  That will mean a 40% improvement in the carbon intensity of global GDP.  We also need to get others to admit the full story.  For example, it will be increasingly difficult for governments to subsidize alternatives when the world moves to full-scale deployment, especially with demand for energy growing. How will these plans remain viable with tax rates on diesel and gasoline already approaching 70% of the pump price in some markets, and the public reaction to this growing trend?  Most of all, we need to connect the future people want with the ways our industry can enable it, including the things that truly matter to our lives like the houses we live in, the journeys we take, and the phones we rely on. And the truly inspirational things in life like lifting two billion more people out of poverty, with more to come.  Try doing that just with wind!Ladies and Gentlemen, our industry faces a crisis of perception with multiple stakeholders.  Our traditional qualities of ample, reliable, and affordable supply are not enough to meet society’s expectations today.  We need action on multiple fronts if that Davos speculation is not to come true. We need to further lighten the carbon footprint of our fuel products – and do so fast.  We need to be trusted globally and locally as a sustainable, ethical, and transparent industry that is genuinely willing to engage, listen, and change as needed.  We need to show millennials that we are as innovative as Apple, Google, or Samsung, and are determined to use cutting-edge technology to make the world a better place. We need to help our stakeholders realize that all energy sources will be required for decades to come, and that a long-term investment in our industry is both wise and profitable to deliver on that demand growth.   And we need to speak in a way that puts real progress and people first, connecting our business with the essentials of modern life.  This radical new mission is the defining challenge for this industry.  It is up there with a manned mission to Mars and just as profound for the Earth. So let’s apply all our resources – particularly the pioneering and resilient spirit that defines this great industry – to define and support this new mission.  And let’s amaze the world with our continued relevance to human progress in the 21st century and beyond.  Thank you. Saudi Aramco today signed three Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) aimed at expanding its downstream presence in the Zhejiang province, one of the most developed regions in China. The company aims to acquire a 9% stake in Zhejiang Petrochemical’s 800,000 barrels per day integrated refinery and petrochemical complex, located in the city of Zhoushan.   The first agreement was signed with the Zhoushan government to acquire its 9% stake in the project. The second agreement was signed with Rongsheng Petrochemical, Juhua Group, and Tongkun Group, who are the other shareholders of Zhejiang Petrochemical. Saudi Aramco’s involvement in the project will come with a long-term crude supply agreement and the ability to utilize Zhejiang Petrochemical’s large crude oil storage facility to serve its customers in the Asian region.   An integral part of the project includes a third agreement with Zhejiang Energy to invest in a retail fuel network. The companies plan to build a large scale retail network over the course of the next five years in the Zhejiang province. The retail business will be integrated with the Zhejiang Petrochemical complex as an outlet for the refined products produced.   Saudi Aramco CEO, Amin Nasser said: “The agreements demonstrate our commitment to the Chinese market and help enhance the strategic integration of our downstream network in Asia. They will further strengthen our relationship with China and the Zhejiang province, setting the stage for more cooperation in the future.”   Phase I of the project will include a newly built 400,000 barrels per day refinery with a 1.4 mmtpa ethylene cracker unit, and a 5.2 mmtpa Aromatics unit. Phase II will see a 400,000 barrels per day refinery expansion, which will include deeper chemical integration than Phase I. 
Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today signed an agreement to form a joint venture with NORINCO Group and Panjin Sincen to develop a fully integrated refining and petrochemical complex, located in the city of Panjin in the Liaoning province of China.  The partners will create a new company, Huajin Aramco Petrochemical Co. Ltd., as part of a project that will include a 300 thousand barrel per day refinery with a 1.5 million metric tonnes per annum (mmtpa) ethylene cracker and a 1.3 mmtpa PX unit. Saudi Aramco will supply up to 70% of the crude feedstock for the complex, which is expected to start operations in 2024. Saudi Aramco CEO, Amin Nasser said: “Our agreement today with NORINCO and the Liaoning province is a clear demonstration of Saudi Aramco’s strategy to move from beyond a buyer-seller relationship, to one where we can make significant investments to contribute to China’s economic growth and development. Our participation in the integrated refining and petrochemical project in Panjin will strengthen our collaborative efforts to enhance energy security, revitalize key growth sectors and industries in Liaoning and also meet rising demand for products and goods in China’s Northeast region.” There are additional plans to establish a fuels retail business, which will further integrate into the value chain. By the end of 2019, a three-party Marketing JV Company is expected to be formed between Saudi Aramco, North Huajin and Liaoning Transportation Construction Investment Group Co., Ltd. to develop a retail fuel stations network in the target markets.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco and National Oilwell Varco Incorporated (NOV) recently held the first Arabian Rig Manufacturing (ARM) Board of Managers meeting. ARM is a newly formed company, a joint venture (JV) between NOV (owning 70% of the JV’s shares) and Saudi Aramco. Highlights of the meeting included the appointment of senior officials and the approval of the company’s branding strategy. The JV partnership will establish a world-class onshore rig and equipment manufacturing and aftermarket facility in Ras al-Khair, 80 kilometers north of Jubail. The modern, integrated facility will have the capacity to produce 10 rigs per year to serve the Middle East and North Africa region. Spanning over 500,000 square meters, ARM will be the single largest state-of-the-art rig, drilling equipment, and aftermarket facility to date.  The complex will complement engineering, training, service, and repair capabilities, with additional cross-functional efficiency and design flexibility to address market requirements and technological advancements.  The fully integrated manufacturing and services hub includes a two-floor office block, warehouse, raw material laydown yard, fabrication shop, machine and assembly shop, total paint and blast, rig-up yard, repair shop, and a future expansion area. With a commitment to Saudization, it is estimated that the facility will create local employment for 1,100 people in multiple disciplines and across various levels of expertise. Additionally, it will contain a world-class training center installed with the latest equipment and simulators to provide the required training.  
ARM will be supported by a commitment from the recently announced Saudi Aramco Nabors Drilling Company to buy drilling rigs from the JV.
Construction work will be completed in two years. Commissioning of the facility is expected by 2020, with the first rig to be delivered by 2021. By 2025, it’s expected ARM will have manufactured 55 land rigs, and contributed significantly to Saudization and the creation of local content. NOV is a multinational corporation based in Houston, Texas, in the U.S. As a company that conducts operations in more than 1,200 locations across six continents, NOV is a leading provider of equipment and components used in oil and gas drilling and production operations, oil field services, and supply chain integration services to the upstream oil and gas industry. NOV has already been operating in Saudi Arabia for more than 40 years with significant investments in local infrastructure and in local employees.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco and Total today signed an agreement to develop a network of retail fuel service stations in Saudi Arabia. The 50:50 joint venture (JV) plans to invest around $1 billion over the next 6 years in the Saudi retail fuel market to provide motorists with premium fuels and retail services in Saudi Arabia. “This is a major milestone which will help establish a quality retail fuel network in the Kingdom. We look forward to working together with our long-term partner Total and draw on their extensive experience in the retail fuel market,” said Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Downstream and Chairman of the JV Board. He added: “With this new business, we aim to enhance the quality of services, as well as create jobs and additional investment opportunities in the Kingdom. This JV aligns with Saudi Vision 2030 and supports the goals of the Infrastructure and Transportation Initiative under the Quality of Life program. This project is designed to also help optimize the total value of our hydrocarbon resources.” Momar Nguer, President of Marketing and Services and Executive Committee Member at Total, said: “Total is proud to be the first international major oil company to invest in Saudi Arabia’s fuel retail network. This joint agreement is in line with our strategy to expand in fast-growing markets worldwide. This new agreement is also reaffirming our long-term partnership with Saudi Aramco. Following our joint investments in SATORP refining and petrochemical complex, we are pleased to bring to the Saudi market our expertise and customer-minded approach in retail and contribute to local employment development.” The two companies have also signed an agreement with the owners of Tas’helat Marketing Company (TMC) and Sahel Transport Company (STC) to acquire TMC and STC, thereby jointly acquiring their existing network of 270 service stations and their fuel tanker fleet. Saudi Aramco and Total plan to modernize this network and build high-quality service stations at selected locations. This transaction is subject to approval of regulatory authorities. Ahmed Al-Subaey, Vice President of Marketing, Sales, and Supply Planning and Chairman of the Board of RetailCo., said: “This venture will strive to exceed customer’s expectations. We aspire to become the retailer of choice in Saudi Arabia, providing customers with a unique experience and premium offerings. Saudi Aramco is building on its position as the world’s oil powerhouse and international retail experience, coupled with Total’s experience in this field.” Mr. Al-Subaey emphasized that the decision to acquire TMC came after extensive feasibility studies of the local fuel and retail market and its promising opportunities. He added: “Our goal is to provide high-quality services that support the tourism industry in the Kingdom and reflect our country’s progress in developing the infrastructure and a reliable service industry.” The JV will take a phased approach to expanding its network of domestic fuel retail stations, with a plan to reach the goal of owning and operating hundreds of stations by 2021.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco fellow Ali Dogru has been recognized by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s (MIT) Earth Resources Laboratory (ERL) and the Department of Earth, Atmospheric and Planetary Sciences (EAPS) with a new Fellowship honoring leading researchers in geophysics, and related areas.  Dogru is among the first class of ERL Fellows, which also includes Dirk Smit, the vice president of Exploration Technology and chief scientist of geophysics at Shell, and Arthur Cheng, a professor of petroleum geosciences at the National University of Singapore. The three Fellows will be invited, and encouraged, to spend time on campus, pursuing work of their choice in collaboration with ERL students, researchers, and faculty.  Laurent Demanet, associate professor of applied mathematics and director of ERL, — and Robert van der Hilst — Schlumberger professor of earth and planetary sciences, and EAPS department head — said these visits will be opportunities for the Fellows to contribute to ERL’s research mission and offer mentoring and career guidance to students.
“MIT is known for innovative interdisciplinary work that often begins with informal interactions among researchers,” says Demanet. “By including leaders from academia and industry in the day-to-day life of our lab, we hope to not only recognize their support but gain valuable perspectives on the past, present, and future of our fields.”
The selection of the first class of ERL Fellows was done by a prestigious committee, including oil industry executives and EAPS professor emeritus and ERL founding director M. Nafi Toksöz. The names of the first class were announced at the 2018 Society for Exploration Geophysics Annual Meeting in Anaheim in late 2018. Dogru has published extensively throughout his career and holds many U.S. patents. He has received SPE’s John Franklin Carll, Reservoir Description and Dynamics, Honorary and Distinguished Membership Awards, along with World Oil’s Innovative Thinker Award and ADIPEC’s Best Technology Award. He is also a member of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering. Dogru started his career at Saudi Aramco in 1988, initially on a loan basis from Mobil, and in 1996 he transferred permanently to Saudi Aramco. A visiting scientist at MIT since 2011 and a Saudi Aramco Fellow since 2013, Dogru is the director of Saudi Aramco’s Computational Modeling Technology team, which is creating the world leading TeraPOWERS program for modeling Saudi Arabia’s reservoirs with granular accuracy. His current research is focused on developing the next-generation parallel reservoir simulator to improve the reservoir models and optimize oil recovery in mature fields, helping Exploration find new oil and gas fields.  “This is a great honor for me to be recognized by MIT and to be among the three most distinguished scientists from around the world,” said Dogru. “This event also reflects Saudi Aramco’s capabilities in leading edge technologies. I believe my eight years of association with MIT in research and teaching has contributed to this recognition, and I would like to thank the leadership of Saudi Aramco, and all of my team members and colleagues from the industry and academia for their support.”Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco with its partner Total today announced the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Daelim, a South Korean petrochemical company. Under the MoU, Daelim is planning to build a new 80,000 tons state-of-the-art Polyisobutylene (PIB) plant, which is expected to come on-stream in 2024. This agreement is another step to drive Saudi Aramco’s petrochemicals growth strategy. This follows Saudi Aramco’s announcement in October 2018 to launch an engineering study to build a large petrochemical complex in Jubail. 
The launch of the Front-End Engineering and Design (FEED) of the PIB plant will start in February 2019 and will be concluded in Q4 2019. The new petrochemicals facility will be using feedstock from the Amiral complex in Jubail, located on Saudi Arabia’s eastern coast. It is the first time that the PIB product will be developed in the Kingdom.
 The facility’s location in Saudi Arabia will give Daelim access to competitive feedstock and energy, with large infrastructure, to better serve customers in the Middle East and markets across Europe and Asia.
 This specialty chemical project will be part of the large-scale petrochemical complex of Amiral, located in the value park. It will be using Daelim’s PIB proprietary technology to produce a wide range of products in a single plant, from conventional PIB (CPIB) to highly reactive PIB (HR-PIB).
 PIB is a high value-added chemical product and has a wide range of industrial applications such as adhesives, lubricants and fuel additives.
Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comLadies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to join you for the 20th meeting of what has become a preeminent forum for thought leadership in energy.  An even greater pleasure to do so in this magnificent Opera House. And I must say, it is a thrill for me to return to Florence.
 You see, some 35 years ago, as a young high school graduate in Saudi Arabia, I made my very first trip abroad.  And my destination was Florence!
 As I’m sure you will appreciate, this beautiful city inspired in me a sense of wonder that remains to this day.
 In fact, I remember vividly standing just about a mile from here, at the feet of a masterpiece I’d seen in countless photos – Michelangelo’s iconic “David” sculpture.  I was awed by the statue’s size … and found myself trying to estimate just how massive a block of marble Michelangelo must have started with to carve a 5-meter-high figure.
 It was obvious even then – I was destined to be an engineer!
 And with that memory in mind as I was thinking about my talk today … it occurred to me that the work of a sculptor is relevant to this pivotal moment for our industry.
 Because, before the artist can carve the statue from the stone, he must first have a clear vision of what he wants to create.
 And so, let me begin this morning by considering a clear vision of a promising energy future, amidst an ongoing transition …
 For all the disagreements among stakeholders on how we might get there, there seems to be broad unity on the long-term vision.
 We know we need an energy portfolio that meets the needs of mankind.  With the global population increasing by 1.5 billion by mid-century, as well as rising living standards of the existing base, we need adequate energy supplies to support rapidly expanding urban populations, and the economies that grow with them.
 We need an energy portfolio that meets the needs of the environment.  A low-carbon energy mix that reduces emissions, holds the line on climate change, and improves air quality.
And to achieve these things, we need an energy portfolio that is at the cutting-edge of technology.  One that eliminates poverty, delivers maximum value, higher productivity, reduced emissions, greater reliability and efficiency, and improved safety.
 It short, what we all want is a future of reliable, ample, affordable, cleaner energy for the world.
But ladies and gentlemen, this is where the consensus ends!
 There are many different views on the best path to get us there, and the pace of change required.  So, for simplicity, let me describe a narrative – one I feel strongly about – that has not received enough attention.
 In this scenario, vehicle electrification progresses, but the transition is long and winding – even generational in duration.  It reflects significant differences among various parts of the world, and the need for multiple technologies and energy sources to run in parallel.
 There is ample precedent for this … man’s transition from wood to coal, for instance.  Or from coal to oil and gas.  So, it is realistic to expect oil and gas to continue to play a major role in delivering reliable, affordable energy for decades to come. Ultimately, the situation on the ground – where affordability, reliability, energy security and adequate time to switch-over are paramount for the end user – will likely move us along this more realistic path … and ensure a more orderly transition in which no nation or region is left behind. So, this poses an important question.
 If we can agree on what the energy future looks like, with oil and gas continuing to shoulder a major burden of the world’s growing energy needs … then what does a successful oil and gas company of the future look like?
 In a word, “smarter.”
 And I don’t mean solely in terms of technology. … Beyond shattering technical barriers and developing and promoting cleaner oil products, we also have to improve our image, engagement and public acceptance in order to better fulfill our role in society.
 A successful energy company of the future must be seen as a positive contributor moving mankind forward.
A company focused not only on shareholders, but also on the broader group of stakeholders … from consumers and employees, to suppliers, governments, regulators, and communities.
 Certainly this applies to climate change, where we must have a healthier, more productive, and broader dialogue with the public.
It goes without saying that we must be actively committed to delivering technologies that reduce the GHG footprint of hydrocarbons.  But we must also better communicate the actions we are taking and the progress we are making.
 For example, Saudi Aramco’s work with the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, our R&D in cleaner burning IC engines, CCUS and profitable uses of carbon … reduced methane emission and flaring significantly. Or more recently, Saudi Arabia’s being recognized for the lowest upstream carbon intensity in the world.
 When we better engage the public, we can correct the misperception that our industry is simply “part of the problem” on climate change … and help them realize we are part of the solution.
 A big part.
 Next, a successful energy company will, in a sense, be a successful “technology” company.
Florence was at the epicenter of the Renaissance in the 14th century.
In the 21st Century, our industry has the opportunity to be at the epicenter of the Fourth Industrial Revolution.  But only if we reclaim our passion for innovation.
There was a time when we were at the leading edge.  We created 3D seismic and horizontal drilling – we introduced super computers to discover, develop and manage reservoirs.
 Today, compared to industries like computing, space and aviation, healthcare, and the Internet, we are nowhere near the front of the pack.
But this is not for a lack of opportunity.
 We have within our reach digital technologies that are turning science fiction into science fact.  Tools like AI, the IoT, Robotics, Big Data Analytics, and many others.
 I am proud to say Saudi Aramco was working in the Fourth Industrial Revolution years before the World Economic Forum coined the term.
Our Uthmaniyah Gas Plant, for instance (one of our oldest gas plants) has become a leader in the use of Advanced Analytics and AI solutions.  This has helped us cut inspection time by 90%, reduce cost, improve safety … and it has resulted in the WEF recognizing the plant as one of its “Lighthouses” leading the way in Industry 4.0, and the only one from oil and gas.
 I mention this because, as an industry, we have massive amounts of data from seismic, production, mechanical and electrical functions.  A single drilling rig or gas plant can generate terabytes of data every single day.  But we tap into only a very small fraction of it.

By applying new technologies to data we are already generating, we can change the game.
 In exploration, for instance, Machine Learning and AI can sift through vast amounts of 3D and 4D seismic data to extract features invisible to the human eye.
Or in drilling, we should settle for nothing short of fully-automated drilling rigs to increase performance, safety and efficiency.
 All of this – and much more – is within our grasp.
 So what’s holding us back? … I would offer two thoughts:
 First, market turbulence has had a chilling effect on investment.  In field development, the investments that are being made are mostly for short-cycle, smaller projects.  While in R&D, they are mostly in incremental improvements with quick payouts.
We must reverse this trend … because I believe lagging investment is the greatest single threat to our future success.
 And second, in our industry, we tend to keep our problems to ourselves.  But this is not the way in the 4.0 space, where innovation comes from looking beyond our industry’s borders … in collaboration, not isolation.
Breakthroughs come when we blur the lines … when fields like Digitalization, Bio and Nano Technologies, Space Science, Quantum Computing, Robotics, Big Data, and Earth Sciences collide.
 Whether it’s a full-scale test deployment with a leading robotics company, or a simple collaboration with a university on a difficult algorithm, we have an opportunity to transform our industry by working together.
 And finally, a successful energy company will build and exploit a competitive advantage.
We know technology is a differentiator.  But it is not the only one.
For a service company, a renewed focus on efficiency and cost leadership, with a higher quality of service, will offer success where others fall behind.  Maximizing areas of competitive advantage and differentiation – whatever they might be – is critical.  There are still bright prospects ahead of our industry, but the environment will be challenging and only the best will thrive.  Ladies and gentlemen, during such a pivotal moment in our history, it is fitting that we are gathered in the cradle of the Renaissance.
Because “renaissance” means “rebirth.”  And that is exactly what is called for if we are to strengthen the role oil and gas will continue to play in mankind’s future.
 If we will rekindle our passion for innovation and advanced technology... If we will commit to the investments needed to expand supply, unlock new value and find competitive advantage... And if we will continue to develop – and be “seen” developing – lower carbon, cleaner oil and gas products and technologies... Then I believe an uncertain and ambiguous future is the very stone from which we will carve a stronger and more capable industry.
One that will grow and remain profitable for generations to come.
 Where we must not be found lacking is in our ambition.
And so I will leave you with the words of a man from Florence who knew something about ambition.
 It was Michelangelo himself who said, “The greatest danger for most of us is not that we aim high and we miss it, but that we aim low, and we achieve it.”
 It has been a great pleasure to return to Florence and speak with you today.
 And I thank you very much.
  First entity in Saudi Aramco to be certified for its environmental protection system internationally. After achieving ISO 50001, the international certification in Energy Management, Aramco's Safaniyah Onshore Producing Department (SONPD) embarked on an ambitious plan to certify the biggest gas-oil separation plant (GOSP) in the world and its associated facilities with the International Standard ISO 14001:2015 — the Environmental Management System (EMS).  The main advantage of any international certification is the sustainability of the “Plan-Do-Check-Adjust” cycle. ISO 14001 goes beyond this minimum tangible benefit to include: During the process, SONPD overhauled its entire Environmental Management System, going from a basic minimum to a top-notch system. The new EMS includes a full life cycle impact assessment of all input and output streams, risk management and treatment plans, and the implementation and closure of some continuing environmental concerns. 
Each stage of the audit was designed to take a deeper dive to identify compliance and required longer term preservation measures to minimize the environmental impact and footprint of SONPD operational activities. After SONPD cleared the implementation steps and the gates for external certification, Aramco's environmental protection department took a comprehensive look at the entire process to search for best practices and guidelines that may be used for future Saudi Aramco departments opting to certify their facilities according to the international standard.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Saudi Aramco Technologies, today signed a Joint Development and Collaboration Agreement (JDCA) with Axens and TechnipFMC to accelerate the development and commercialization of the company’s Catalytic Crude to Chemicals (CC2C™) technology.  CC2C™ technology has the potential to significantly increase the efficiency and yield of chemicals production, converting more than 60% of a barrel of crude oil into chemicals. The agreement aims to achieve commercial readiness for the CC2C™ technology by 2021. The CC2C™ technology converts crude oil directly to chemicals which will eliminate several energy-intensive processes and create high-value product streams that produce larger quantities of chemicals while generating less emissions.  “This is another milestone in the company’s effort to develop groundbreaking technology that maximizes the value of each barrel of crude oil,” said Amin H. Nasser, Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco. “Oil will become increasingly more important as a feedstock in the production of petrochemicals. Saudi Aramco is leveraging its position as the world’s oil powerhouse to capitalize on the strong growth potential for chemicals globally. Through the strategic partnership with Axens and TechnipFMC, we advance cutting-edge technology to meet the increasing demand for petrochemicals, and support our efforts to build a global chemicals business.” Jean Sentenac, Axens’s Chairman and CEO, said: “It is an honor and a pleasure to partner with Saudi Aramco and TechnipFMC to develop technology for the future. According to the IEA, an additional 4 Mbpd of crude oil will have to be converted into petrochemicals by 2035 to meet the demand. This is a unique opportunity to create this next generation technology that will be of great interest to the market for converting crude oil into petrochemicals.” Stan Knez, President, Process Technology at TechnipFMC, said: “TechnipFMC’s solid position in FCC technologies as well as down flow catalytic cracking experience will provide a strong foundation for this joint development. The CC2C™ technology will be an innovative approach for producing a full range of petrochemicals using crude oil as the feedstock. We are pleased to be teaming with Saudi Aramco and Axens in the effort to commercialize this process quickly and expand our technology portfolio.”  The innovative CC2C™ technology builds on the success of the proven high-severity fluid catalytic cracking (HS-FCC™) technology, which Saudi Aramco co-developed with King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals (KFUPM) and JXTG Nippon Oil & Energy, to directly convert crude oil to high value chemicals.  Saudi Aramco, Axens, and TechnipFMC are all members of the HS-FCC™ technology Alliance. Axens and TechnipFMC are also the exclusive licensors of HS-FCC™ technology and two of the leading providers of technology and infrastructure for the energy industry.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco operates in some of the world’s most remote areas, and the Aviation Department supports and enables the company to reach its strategic goals by operating in these remote areas. To meet the increasing complexity and sophistication of our operations, Aviation has initiated a fleet replacement strategy that oversees the replacement of its helicopters and airbuses with new generation models.  As part of the fleet replacement strategy, 16 medium-sized AugustaWestland (AW) 139s have been replaced with a new, second-generation model. The AW139 is an industry leader, helping ensure safety and reliability in challenging, multi-role operations. With its enhanced range, endurance, hover performance, and safety features, the AW139 will complement Saudi Aramco’s offshore capabilities. The AW139s also allows Aviation to expand its capability to provide a fully functional search and rescue program, enhancing Saudi Aramco’s capabilities to respond to safety and rescue emergencies like never before.  One of the many new safety enhancements is Night Vision Technology, which greatly improves flight safety, turning night into virtual day. Also, the helicopter has a large passenger cabin that can accommodate 15 passengers, and can be customized with specialized equipment for executive and VIP transportation.  AW139 parts are imported from Italy and the U.S., but they have been assembled in Saudi Arabia. Many of the new fleet have already entered service for the company. 
Additionally, five AW109s have been replaced with the newest variant of the Airbus H145 that are the latest 4-ton-class twin-engine helicopters. With a larger cabin, compact airframe, and powerful engines, they have the capability and flexibility to perform better in their current operations, as well as augment Aviation’s abilities to take on new missions. The new addition will also allow Aviation to meet the predicted future growth of Saudi Aramco’s hydrocarbon strategy.  At the core of the fleet replacement strategy is Saudi Aramco’s priority to ensure and enhance safety. Second, assembling the AW139 and H145 in the Kingdom ensures that Aviation mechanics and engineers remain leaders in the region for servicing all operational needs for Saudi Aramco. Fahd H. Cynndy, manager of the Aviation Department, said: “Saudi Aramco Aviation has achieved massive strides in becoming the most optimal provider of air transport solutions for the company. As our ambitions have grown in tandem with our capacity to deliver on every challenge that we have faced, we have integrated response agility with the industry’s best-in-class efficiency. “With that, we now stand tall in our community as we offer the industry an agile and innovative flight service that has become a model for the region to emulate,” he said.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Dubai Electricity & Water Authority (DEWA) to foster collaboration in power supply and demand management. The MoU will also provide a framework to assess potential collaborations and ventures in new energy and smart grid applications, digital transformation, and operational excellence. “We look forward to our partnership with DEWA as it is an important step to achieve our shared objectives and goals that aim at identifying new opportunities within our business for deployment of new energy, smart grid and digital applications. Through this partnership, we are pursuing an exchange of experiences and best practices that will help both parties to leverage technology solutions and accelerate business growth and drive innovation in the energy sector”. “The MoU will help our efforts in digital transformation in the energy industry by applying effective technologies to enable operational efficiencies. The collaboration with DEWA will complement Saudi Aramco’s ongoing energy and technology initiatives”, said Saudi Aramco VP Power Systems, Abdulkarim Al-Ghamdi. “This MoU supports the vision of the wise leadership in both the United Arab Emirates and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and contributes to achieving integration across all vital sectors through joint efforts to support national and regional goals and common interests, anticipate the future and adopt innovation to enhance sustainability of development. The collaboration with Saudi Aramco supports regional efforts to enhance the energy, water, smart transformation, smart grids, energy efficiency and sustainability sectors”, said HE Saeed Mohammed Al Tayer, MD & CEO of DEWA. Saudi Aramco is deploying smart control systems as part of the intelligent Power Center currently under construction. The center aims to enhance the effectiveness of power generation, transmission, distribution, and asset management through the implementation of latest real-time power management technologies.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comSaudi Aramco’s Uthmaniyah Gas Plant (UGP) has been recognized by the World Economic Forum (WEF) as a “Lighthouse” manufacturing facility, a leader in technology applications of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Saudi Aramco is the first energy company globally to be included in this select group of manufacturing sites. The plant is also the only facility in the Middle East to be recognized by WEF. The announcement was made ahead of WEFs Annual Meeting in Davos, Switzerland. The gas plant is one of the world’s largest gas processing plants. It was commissioned in 1981 as part of Saudi Aramco’s Master Gas System to process associated gas from oil wells. The facility is the latest example of Saudi Aramco’s application of Advanced Analytics and Artificial Intelligence solutions to increase productivity while enhancing safety, reliability and efficiency of its operating facilities. The use of drones and wearable technologies to inspect pipelines and machinery has helped cut inspection time by 90% in this industrial facility. “The recognition of the Uthmaniyah Gas Plant demonstrates Saudi Aramco’s shift to transform and adapt in the rapidly changing global energy landscape. Uthmaniyah is only one part of our large integrated energy value chain where IR 4.0 technologies are playing a critical role to enable significant capital and operational efficiencies,” said Amin H. Nasser, Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco.
 He added: “Through the application of IR 4.0 technologies, we can be at the forefront of the industry helping to shape the future of energy as part of Saudi Aramco’s mission to supply oil and gas around the world safely and reliably.”
 The seven new facilities join nine other “Manufacturing Lighthouses” which WEF unveiled in September 2018. The 16 factories were selected from an initial list of 1,000 manufacturers based on their successful implementation of cutting-edge technologies of the future that drive financial and operational impact.
 The “Lighthouse” program was conducted by WEF in collaboration with McKinsey during a year-long study. A study team visited UGP in Saudi Arabia and performed a thorough audit, focusing on UGP’s top Industrial Revolution 4.0 integrated initiatives.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comOnce a bastion of male engineers, the Southern Area Production Engineering Department (SAPED) made a paradigm shift in 2018 as female petroleum engineers joined the department on assignment from the Reservoir Engineering Department.  Thanks to their hard work, dedication, and perseverance, coupled with SAPED’s uniquely designed Individual Development Plan (IDP) — especially tailor-made for female engineers — a historic transformation has taken place. Female engineers have not only proven their capabilities in the operational environment, but have emerged as front runners in both the office and field environments.   “This is a major step the company is taking toward encouraging diversity in workplaces and unleashing the young talents in various environments,” said SAPED manager Hamad M. Al-Marri. “Now that more females are into the business, let’s just fathom the thought of how much great input we will have as a company, achieving growth, innovation — and most importantly — a great evolution.” Gender diversity in the workforce is not only a top priority for Saudi Aramco, but also for the Kingdom through Saudi Vision 2030. It also brings tangible benefits to the company by tapping into the rich talents and hard work ethic of the large and growing female portion of the company’s workforce. Walaa Al-Mukhtar, one of the female engineers taking advantage of this opportunity, said breaking barriers was one key reason she jumped at the chance to work with SAPED, along with the determination to prove that female engineers can add to the industry as much as males do. Hosting female engineers was equally challenging for SAPED, as the experience was new for this engineering department. SAPED welcomed this challenge and took a dramatic stride to draw the company’s greatest untapped resource — female employees. Specific development plans were developed and individual mentors were assigned to each engineer for close monitoring and guidance to reinforce holistic talent management, competencies, and leadership development. The female engineers were placed in strategic units to ensure an easy and smooth transformation to their new job. To ensure a successful transition, the female engineers were assigned to work as support engineers with an experienced professional. Within a short period of three months, they independently started handling all production engineering jobs for a GOSP connected with more than 120 wells in mature fields, and the multiple challenges that followed.  Saudi Aramco is not only committed to the technical growth of its engineers, but it also strives to develop and produce future leaders. The female engineers were encouraged to participate in many leadership courses as well as in-Kingdom and out-of-Kingdom conferences on leadership development.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comRemarks by Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Ladies and gentlemen, it is with pride and pleasure that I join you in celebrating this milestone anniversary of the Saudi Arabian Section of the Society of Petroleum Engineers.   Since 1959, this Section has provided invaluable service to the Kingdom, to its members, and to the engineering sciences.  And I salute your technical and professional excellence over six decades. You know, in petroleum engineering, we can become jaded by dealing with exceptional numbers. Millions of years, billions of barrels, trillions of cubic feet.  For instance, in 1959, Aramco could produce one-million barrels a day.  Today, ten-times that amount.   So in our line of work, a number like 60 could pale by comparison.   But in today’s world, a “Diamond Anniversary” is as rare – and as precious – as the gem for which it is named.  Very few organizations survive 60 years, and even fewer manage to grow in strength.   The Saudi Section of SPE has not only thrived over the last 60 years, in the process, you have become the Number 1 SPE section outside of the United States!  I am encouraging all organizations to work more actively to increase our membership.  Because I believe 2019 is the year the Saudi Section can become Number 1. Not just outside the US, but Number 1 in the world!  And what better time to do so than as one of our own – Dr. Sami Alnuaim – begins his term as President of SPE International.  While we have known Sami as a “rising star,” now SPE worldwide will come to know a light that has risen from this distinguished Section.  Ladies and gentlemen, tonight we celebrate a long and rich history. But if there is one thing I know as a CEO, it is that I don’t get paid to be a historian!  I spend my time planning for the future.  And I believe the next 60 years of this Section will prove to be even more exciting than our first.  It will certainly be more challenging.   In fact, I believe the pressures our industry will face in the next chapter of our story will be immense, unlike any we have known before.   In this way, a “Diamond Anniversary” has special significance at this crucial time in our history. For a diamond is, in fact, the remarkable end-result of tremendous pressure.   It comes as no surprise to any of you that there are those who believe petroleum is a “sunset industry.” That electric vehicles and alternative fuel sources will soon render fossil fuels just that – “a fossil of a bygone era.” They believe this industry is “part of the problem” on climate change, with nothing positive to contribute to a more sustainable, environmentally sound future. That a young person would be foolish to choose oil and gas for a promising career. They will tell you with conviction that our best days are behind us.  But I can tell you, with even greater conviction, that I am as passionate about the future of this industry today as I was as a young member of SPE.   Even more so.  Because, ladies and gentlemen, I believe what some have mistaken as the “sunset” of our industry is, in fact, the “dawn” of an industry in transformation.   But only if we rise to the challenges and opportunities a new day offers.  We know the world needs more, not less, petroleum.  That oil will be critical as the urban population increases by 2.5 billion by mid-century.  We know that while EVs and renewables make progress, it will be years, even generations, before they can shoulder a major share of global demand.  We know oil will be essential in chemicals, with crude oil as a feedstock possibly seeing the fastest growth of any demand sector.   At the same time, we face a natural decline in oil fields. And uncertainty in the markets, which prevents long-term investments in new discovery.  In the face of such historic pressures, if we are to remain competitive – an industry moving mankind forward – something extraordinary is required.  And that is transformation. A transformation that reinvigorates our belief in what is possible.   Where we drive groundbreaking innovation, and better engage the public in our work and our vision.   Because if we are to succeed in a very challenging future, message will be as important as mission.  The mission is clear: we must reclaim our position as an industry at the cutting edge.   We have the opportunity to use the powerful tools of the Fourth Industrial Revolution to unlock new value in both our natural and human resources. To increase discovery and recovery, reduce costs, enhance safety and protect the environment.    We must collaborate in this space like never before.  Because through collaboration among service providers, engineering companies, equipment manufacturers, petroleum producers, universities and many others, we can achieve more together than any of us can alone. At the same time, we must be stronger advocates for our message. A perfect example is with climate change, where we must continue working to reduce the GHG footprint of hydrocarbon.  But we must also correct misperceptions and better communicate the progress we are already making. There is a promising story unfolding, and it must be told with a stronger voice. A story of our investment and progress in R&D, in cleaner combustion technologies, carbon capture and utilization, and our work with OGCI, for instance.  Or the fact that the Kingdom has been recognized for managing oil fields with the lowest carbon intensity of any major producer.  By taking ownership of our message, we can become an industry that is once again known for innovation. One that draws young talent – including female talent – like a powerful magnet.   This is crucial to our success, and it is an area where SPE can help tremendously. Ladies and gentlemen, transformation, like a diamond, has many facets.  And there are others we can talk about.   But I share this challenge with you because I believe in the power of SPE.   With a 60-year track record of accomplishment and success, I believe SPE is capable of shaping the agenda of our industry.  And so, in our “Diamond Year” I challenge all of us to work together to harness the tremendous pressures we face, and use this to produce something truly remarkable. An industry with a renewed passion for innovation, a clear vision of its role in the future, and the belief that we have much more to contribute to the betterment of mankind.  Let us build that future – and tell that story – together. Thank you, and congratulations. The worldwide adoption of Reinforced Thermoplastic Pipe (RTP) in construction projects dates back to the early years of the 21st century as the technology drove cost saving initiatives by providing sustainable corrosion control measures.   However, the early uses of RTP technology were constrained by the application limitations of the manufactured pipes, which was reflected in maximum sizes, fluid pressures, and temperatures of the process designs. These application limitations have been progressively eased by advances in materials and manufacturing technology, requiring companies to stay abreast of developments in the field.  At Saudi Aramco, this is not necessarily a straightforward process. In larger companies, interdependent departments play various roles to validate, approve, and collaborate with vendors in an effort to reassure the safety and reliability of adopted technologies. In this context, Project Management and Engineering Services have had success in progressively deploying RTP in Onshore Maintain Potential Projects Department (OMPPD) oil and water service projects, working with vendors and other departments to introduce proven technological advancements that have produced significant savings for Saudi Aramco. OMPPD first deployed RTP back in 2015 in the Khurais and Central Arabia areas. The project scope included a 142-kilometer (km) length of 4-inch fiber reinforced RTP pipe with two suppliers where the oil applications required low design conditions (i.e., 1,500 pounds per square inch (psi) and 140 degrees Fahrenheit). As a result of prudent economic analysis, significant savings were achieved by avoiding a single 6-inch pipe, which was available from a single supplier, and using dual 4-inch pipes. The savings were increased further by a three-week reduction in the construction schedule relative to the use of solid corrosion resistant alloy. However, due to the constraints of technology and manufacturer capabilities, RTP could not be adopted in water service projects where the parameter envelop is as high as 3,000 psi. The forecast of 150-km length of RTP pipe in water injection applications for the Southern Area Oil Operations (SAOO) and Khurais areas laid the foundation for OMPPD to search the market for suppliers to provide 6-inch pipe that could withstand 3,000 psi. With the support of the Consulting Services Department (CSD), the Pipelines Project Department, and other organizations, a supplier was introduced to expand the applications that can leverage the cost savings of RTP using steel reinforcement technology. However, the sole source strategy did not support the economic business case of an RTP alternative as more suppliers were needed to reduce the cost through competitive bidding and to increase the bargaining power of the company. 
Not long after, in 2017, the extensive research and capabilities verification efforts resulted in another supplier being qualified and added to RTP approved vendors. After a competitive bidding process, an order was successfully placed.  Project Management and Engineering Services continues to work to increase RTP applications in OMPPD, but it requires continuous market intelligence of technological advances and being aware of vendors’ current capabilities — all in coordination with other organizations. By doing this, a new supplier has been identified that can produce an application to handle up to 2,250 psi at 221 degrees. CSD is currently working with the vendor to ensure completion of the required qualification tests and arrange a field trial in collaboration with SAOO. As the importance of project performance in terms of schedule and capital expenditure remain critical to Saudi Aramco business, facility life cycle costs are a paramount requirement for OMPPD. Progressively adopting RTP is a definite means to helping meet these scheduling and cost improvement goals.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comKing Abdulaziz Quality Award announced Saudi Aramco’s Yanbu NGL Fractionation Department and Abqaiq Plants the winners of the award in the Major Production Companies sector. The announcement of the fourth King Abdulaziz Quality Award was made in a ceremony held today under the gracious patronage of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn Abdulaziz, in the presence of his Royal Highness Prince Faisal bin Bandar bin Abdul Aziz, Governor of Riyadh.  Winning the golden category of the King Abdulaziz Quality Award is testimony of the relentless efforts undertaken by Yanbu NGL Fractionation Department’s employees and management in improving the NGL fractionation systems, safety and in the implementation of the company’s Operational Excellence strategy. Yanbu NGL Fractionation Department has previously been recognized for having the highest score in Operational Excellence within Saudi Aramco as well. Saudi Aramco Vice President of Domestic Refining and NGL Fractionation, Suleman A. Al Bargan, said, “This achievement adds credence to the operational excellence and work efficiency of the plant and its employees.” This according to him, was another feather in the cap for the plant which won Saudi Aramco’s President’s Operational Excellence Award in 2018. He also added that, “winning such a prestigious award highlights the company’s efforts to successfully instill a culture of excellence and high levels of quality in its systems and among its employees. It also reflects the efforts of the plant’s employees in refining and natural gas operations through research and innovation and through the implementation of technology and safety systems.” The award accorded to the Abqaiq Plants’ reflects the distinguished performance of its employees and their commitment to continuing operational excellence, which paved the way for them to be the best among their peers.  On this occasion, Khaled Al Buraik Vice President of Southern Area Oil Operations, said: “This award underscores the excellence of operations at Saudi Aramco’s facilities and adherence to the highest standards of quality and efficiency. This is a qualitative addition that will motivate further efforts to develop performance; keep up with the latest developments in innovation in processing hydrocarbons; and adhere to health, safety and environmental regulations so that work can be done in a credible and effective manner, which will enable them to achieve more.” Saudi Aramco’s Abqaiq Plants are based in the city of Abqaiq and include three facilities: Crude oil plant, liquefied natural gas plant and supporting facilities plant.  Abqaiq Plants seek to become a world leader in processing hydrocarbons by 2020. Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comWith the full support of Saudi Aramco, the Eastern Province Traffic Safety Committee provided a unique and vitally important experience for visitors during the Al-Janadriyah 33rd National Heritage and Cultural Festival. Abdulaziz Al-Ghamdi, acting director of the Traffic Safety Signature Program in Saudi Aramco, said participation in Al-Janadriyah is expected to increase awareness on the part of drivers, passengers, and road users through awareness and entertainment programs. He said the committee participated in five separate tents: “Saad and Sarah,” “House of Knowledge,” “Glimpse of the Past,” “Traffic Safety Village,” and the “Firefighters Challenge.” The “Saad and Sarah” presentation features a dramatic 3-D show using holograms, among the biggest in the Middle East. The scenario is based on a story — the heroes of which are Saad and Sarah — which tells the tragedy of deadly traffic accidents. The story demonstrated the grave results of recklessness that can lead to fatal traffic accidents and the need to avoid such tragedies. The “House of Knowledge” includes a simulation of an automobile rolling and the seat belt convincer. It also featured questions designed to increase traffic safety awareness for visitors. A third tent, “Glimpse of the Past,” reviews the history of Saudi Aramco’s attention to traffic safety, featuring the new driving school for women and the history of defensive driving training within the company. The booth included an old Kenworth truck, used by the company for carrying heavy equipment. A fourth presentation includes the ”Traffic Safety Village,” which works to entrench traffic safety in the minds of children by enabling them to drive small cars inside a special track where they observe traffic regulations — combining both education and entertainment. Eventually, the children obtained a symbolic driving license, which encourages them to observe traffic regulations by fastening seat belts and crossing the street from areas designated for pedestrians, and other traffic regulations and laws, as well. The ”Firefighters Challenge” area gave visitors a glimpse of the physical strength required of firefighters and the need to respond quickly to incidents. The presentation was designed to help raise awareness of how difficult it is to be a firefighter, and highlight the noble deeds they perform to protect lives and property.Media contact information All media enquiries are handled by Saudi Aramco's Media & Executive Communications Department, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia. International: international.media@aramco.com
Domestic: domestic.media@aramco.comThe Dhahran International Exhibition Center’s newly renovated lobby and Southern Building expansion were inaugurated last month by HRH Prince Saud ibn Nayef ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, Governor of the Eastern Province. The inauguration marked the official opening of the renovated complex, which houses some of the largest events in the Eastern Province, such as the iktva Forum and Exhibition 2018. The timely completion of the new Southern Building, as well as overseeing the overall buildings components, is an important milestone for Dhahran Expo. The success of the project has been attributed to the close follow-up, coordination, and execution management by Saudi Aramco’s Procurement and Supply Chain Management, Project Management Team, Community Services and Corporate Affairs admin areas.  This successful collaborative work in the name of serving the nation comes with proud achievements that are reflected in the final outcome of the venue’s transformation. The value of the investment done on Dhahran Expo started in 2017 when Saudi Aramco sponsored and oversaw the development of Dhahran Exhibition Road leading to Dhahran Expo. The company’s contribution includes establishing both 1.8-kilomter walkway with interlocking, pavement, and asphalting work to renovate Dhahran Exhibition Road, as well as the expansion of the Western Building (iktva Gate), with 10,000 square meters of landscaping and  940 square meters of building space.
Saudi Aramco realized the importance of this community contribution, which led the company to continue on its previous work by supporting Dhahran Expo this year with a new building extension (the Southern Building) and the renovation of the Dhahran Exhibition Road’s middle island, which added a significant value to both Dhahran Expo and the company. The transformation from 2017 until now has helped Dhahran Expo become a world-class event venue in the Eastern Province, positioning it in the heart of regional and international exhibition and forum events and helping to attract business in the region.
Organizing mega-events that attract international and national investors will positively impact the local market in several aspects and drive the economy to grow in the region.
By creating a strong business-oriented environment and an active networking venue, Dhahran Expo will encourage young entrepreneurs and other investors to do business, which in turn facilitates the region’s economic diversification and growth in alignment with the Saudi Vision 2030. In line with the company’s strategy to support and stimulate a local business environment — and to attract international companies to showcase their products in Saudi markets — Saudi Aramco has contributed to and overseen the establishment of the Dhahran Expo expansion. The new expansion includes the Southern Building and its associated area landscaping with a total space of 18,000 square meters. The company contributed to upgrading the facility by renovating the middle island for Dhahran Expo’s road and landscaping the area as part of the company’s contribution towards citizenship and the community.
The Southern Building has a total space of 3,160 square meters and includes a massive lobby with four reception desks, seven multi-purpose halls, a VIP lounge, three meeting rooms, 32 offices, a command room, and a clinic. 
The landscaping included VIP parking lots, interlocking and pavements, and other aesthetic views including fountains. The project was completed with a highest standard and quality specifications within 190 days, reflecting the determination of the teams that accomplished this major project. The inauguration event was attended by several businessmen, investors, and Saudi Aramco employees who supported this initiative. Guests were welcomed with an open tour of the new facilities and had a chance to see how this ambitious plan was turned into a reality.
HRH Prince Saud ibn Nayef marked the official opening by signing a memorable plaque and touring the Expo’s new lobby, meeting rooms, and open floor. 
The event recognized the efforts of Saudi Aramco and Dhahran Expo employees who oversaw the expansion with a memorable gift presented to them by HRH. Saudi Aramco general manager of Government Affairs Khalid K. Al-Mulhim accepted the gift on behalf of the company. 
Al-Mulhim restated Saudi Aramco’s commitment to community, saying, “Our efforts in this renovation were accompanied with great pride and excitement as we see the Dhahran Expo advance to a world-class venue that supports our aspiration for the Eastern Province region and Saudi Arabia as a whole. As the Kingdom powers forward to its Vision 2030, there was a need to have a venue of such caliber that can proudly host international events and be a regional beacon. I believe we achieved that.”
Dhahran Expo president and chairman Abdullah A. AlFouzan presented HRH with a memorable gift in return for honoring the Dhahran Expo’s inauguration.Saudi Aramco, a world-leading integrated energy and chemicals company; and LANXESS AG, a leading German specialty chemicals company, announced today the completion of Saudi Aramco’s acquisition of LANXESS‘s interest in ARLANXEO Holding B.V., a Netherlands-based specialty chemicals joint venture between Saudi Aramco and LANXESS launched in 2016. All relevant authorities have granted approvals for the transaction which was first announced in August 2018. Saudi Aramco’s purchase of LANXESS’s 50% share in ARLANXEO, valued at €1.5 billion on an enterprise value basis, makes it 100% owner of ARLANXEO, enabling further diversification of Saudi Aramco’s downstream portfolio, and strengthening the company’s capabilities across the energy and chemicals value-chain. ARLANXEO is a world-class synthetic rubber and elastomer products company that supplies feedstocks to leading tire and auto-parts manufacturers around the globe. As a fully owned subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, ARLANXEO will accelerate development of growth opportunities integrating the strong feedstock position of Saudi Aramco. In addition, full ownership of ARLANXEO will enhance Saudi Aramco’s sustainability efforts to optimize tire performance-related fuel consumption in line with its efficient fuel/engine R&D strategy, which is focused on increasing fuel efficiency and reducing engine emissions. All of these efforts are well-aligned with Saudi Aramco’s overarching downstream aspiration to drive value by expanding and integrating its portfolio and partnerships, as well as creating additional revenue streams. Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, commented on the acquisition by saying: "ARLANXEO, now as a 100% owned Saudi Aramco subsidiary, represents an essential component to our global position in the chemicals market. Full ownership of ARLANXEO will further diversify Saudi Aramco’s downstream portfolio and strengthen capabilities along the energy and chemicals value chains. I am positive about the upside and the future of product innovation that will serve our customers around the world." As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, ARLANXEO will continue to serve the development, production, marketing, sale and distribution of specialty chemicals and synthetic rubber products, principally for the high-volume global tire and automotive industries. ARLANXEO will maintain its current base in Maastricht, the Netherlands.Saudi Aramco today announced the creation of the Saudi Aramco Retail Company (RetailCo), a wholly-owned subsidiary established to cater for fuel retailing, creating a sustainable and profitable business that integrates across the hydrocarbon value chain. 
The company is chartered with owning Saudi Aramco’s fuel retailing, delivering Saudi Aramco brand positioning, innovating retail experience for fuel and associated non-fuel activities and creating an agile business unit that can adapt to retail market’s changing dynamics.
 “Integrating fully across the hydrocarbon value chain is key to capturing maximum value from our resources. We are very excited with the establishment of RetailCo.  It will leverage synergies in our business model and position us to actively participate in the customer-facing segment of the downstream value chain,” said Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream.
 RetailCo’s core business and operations will take a phased approach to expand its network of domestic fuel retail stations to cover the Kingdom.
 Al-Judaimi added:  “By instituting a customer focus culture, combined with premium fuels and services, RetailCo will strive to exceed its customer’s expectations, thereby ensuring its business is sustainable for the long-term. Kingdom consumers will experience the hallmarks of Saudi Aramco’s brand essence which promises quality, reliability and safety, ensuring a vibrant and enriching stopover experience at our network of fuel retail stations.  This will uplift the sector standards and provide an enhanced customer experience that will add to ‘Quality of Life’ programs in line with Vision 2030,” he said.
 Today’s announcement marks the commencement of a series of initiatives and transactions in RetailCo’s journey to become a full-fledged downstream retail entity of Saudi Aramco.
Saudi Aramco's participation in the 33rd Janadriyah Festival showcased the company's significant contributions to Vision 2030, Saudi Arabia's economic transformation program, during the four-week national heritage event. Held December 20 through January 20 in Riyadh, the annual celebration is organized by the Ministry of National Guard and inaugurated by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. 

Saudi Aramco's exhibition in the Pavilion of the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources in the Janadriyah village highlighted the company's unique history of contribution to the Kingdom's economy and society, and its role in supporting Vision 2030 and its aims of diversifying the economy and building a robust private sector for the 21st century.

Nabeel A. Jama, Vice President of Corporate Affairs, noted that Janadriyah Festival is a source of pride for all Saudis, reflecting the rich heritage and culture of this country across generations, and the development achieved by the Kingdom in all economic, social, cultural and educational fields. He said: “We, at Saudi Aramco, are proud to participate in this great national event. Through the Company’s pavilion at the festival, we offer the opportunity to Janadriyah visitors to learn about our long history and expertise in the energy exploration and industry and our various contributions to the Kingdom’s development that spans more than eight decades.” Throughout its 85-year history, Saudi Aramco has made corporate citizenship a cornerstone of its domestic engagements through various initiatives to accelerate human potential and empowerment, promote knowledge, creativity and innovation through the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture; and drive entrepreneurship, through programs such as Wa'ed, the Co op-to-Entrepreneur Program and the International Technological Innovation Competition. It also supports the development of small and medium enterprises as the backbone of a thriving economy.In what only can be described as Saudi Arabia’s hidden beauty, Shaybah has one of the most unique ecosystems in the world. That made it a perfect location to deploy our Innovation Ecosystem Society’s (IES) Seventh Thought Leaders Think Tank.  Hosted by the Shaybah Producing Department (SPD) and delivered collaboratively by Human Resources (HR) Strategy and Wa’ed, the two-day event provided the 56 participants an experience that will last a lifetime.  Kick-starting the event was a trip to the gas-oil separation plant and wildlife sanctuary that truly set the scene and evoked a sense of creativity and connection. The two visits also highlighted how Saudi Aramco is showcasing the co–existence of “ecological innovation” side by side with the energy industry.

 The idea of hosting a think tank in Shaybah was planted by SPD senior operations adviser Maher Uraijah at a previous think tank held at the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture in Dhahran. The Shaybah sessions consisting of four key events — the hackathon, launch of the Google For Entrepreneurs — Startup Grind Chapter for Dhahran, prototyping, and a pitching panel.  With “ecological innovation” as the theme, the hackathon focused on exploring the application of the Fourth Industrial Revolution (robotics, Internet of Things, blockchain, etc.), to assist in protecting the endangered species of the Arabian desert.  A series of inspirational speakers shared their wisdom for the hackathon and the GFE – Startup Grind Chapter for Dhahran, including Turjuman co-founder Samaher Al Hothaili who is best known as the SR1 million winner at the Hajj Hackathon. That event made the Guinness Book of World Records this past year as the largest hackathon in the world. Majd Alafifi, co-founder of STSchain, a blockchain startup, also spoke at the Shaybah event. Both shared stories of risks and challenges, highlighting that it was their purpose, passion, and persistence that guided them to achieve their ultimate success. 
“It’s hard work, but you should never give up in being innovative,” Alafifi said.  Al Hothaili added that it was the “expertise and talent mix of her team that really contributed to their win.”The prototyping sessions explored mashups and other design thinking concepts that creatively and meaningfully evolved as three-dimensional mockups. 
Overall the event proved to be a great success, with seven prototypes produced.  Dhahran Techno Valley CEO and participant Craig Smith said the Shaybah think tank was “a great example of the hands-on, results-orientated approach making a real difference to employees’ entrepreneurial thinking. Through this progressive approach, Saudi Aramco is inspiring the entrepreneurship passion and sparking creativity. The short- and long-term benefits are limitless, especially under the leadership of the professional IES board.” 

 In wrapping up the event, Trey Goede of Venture Capital, Wa’ed, facilitated the pitching sessions. Each team was given the opportunity to pitch their project to a panel of Saudi Aramco management from Upstream and Wa’ed.  The energy and commitment of the participants was infectious.  “This impactful event was clearly enjoyed and appreciated by the participants,” said John O’Reilly, senior HR professional in Upstream. “I haven’t been to many workshops where the participants were so engaged in their work that they had to be reminded multiple times to take a lunch break.”Standing at a distance, intrigued guests stand mesmerized as they watch a team of Saudi Aramco firefighters advancing deliberately, methodically moving forward into a wall of dense smoke and roaring flames during a training exercise designed to challenge firefighters’ skills.  In an orchestrated maneuver, team members suddenly disappear into the billowing smoke as flames race overhead — their presence now indicated only by the pulsing hoses that trail out of every door and window.  Soon the torrent of dense smoke is joined by intermittent puffs of bright white steam, and eventually, the thick plume of smoke and steam diminish as the firefighters’ silhouettes once again appear in the building’s doorways and window openings. They exit the building, pulling hoses out of doors, carefully descending ladders, and pushing open windows to allow fresh air to sweep the remaining wisps of smoke from the structure. As the firefighters shed their airpacks and fire coats, our guests learn the firefighters who marched into the storm of smoke and flames are actually a team of engineers — including two women from the Fire Protection Department’s Engineering and Training Services Division. Abeer O. Aljabr, an Industrial Engineering and Engineering Management graduate from the University of Sharjah, UAE, and Jazyah E. Aldossary, a chemical engineering graduate from the University of Missouri in the United States, are the first Saudi women to be trained as Saudi Aramco firefighters — meeting the National Fire Protection Association’s (NFPA) rigorous Professional Qualifications Standards.

 The paradigm is rapidly evolving for the firefighters and engineering professionals who serve our communities and industrial facilities in the Fire Protection Department (FrPD). Individuals who were once relegated to the sidelines of fire protection are now serving critical front line roles in a more comprehensive approach to identifying, analyzing, and engineering solutions that will redefine the way we think about firefighting.  Diversity is now taking root in the traditionally male role of the firefighter, and the benefits are proving to be many. The inevitable competition among trainees is elevated by the challenge of women competing in this traditionally male-dominated job. “These young engineers, including our female colleagues, are challenging themselves to be the very best,” said Ghassan G. Abulfaraj, FrPD manager. “By doing this, they are awakening the entire fire service community — challenging the status quo and raising the bar for all of us. “I am also thrilled to witness this historic moment of having the Kingdom’s first certified female firefighters,” Abulfaraj added. After participating in the training program, Aldossary said she was inspired by her father, who was a fire chief in the 1990s. “He was passionate about his job, and that passion was instilled in me from an early age,” said Aldossary. “Joining FrPD is a dream come true. My dad was very proud as the second generation of his family is continuing his legacy.” Aldossary added that although the process to obtain firefighter certification required significant physical demands on a daily basis, the experience has been rewarding.Aljabr, her fellow engineering professional, said the experience was an eye-opener about the demands all firefighters must meet. “Walking a mile in their shoes allowed me to better understand what firefighters go through on a day-to-day basis,” she said. “I’m proud to become a firefighter and be part of an organization that gives equal opportunities,” Aljabr added. “I’m especially proud to be part of a department that believed in us and supported us as we went through the training.” The changing paradigm is not limited to women in the workforce. FrPD engineers are fully engaged in the many arduous tasks that comprise hands-on firefighting. Through this immersed learning process, FrPD engineers are experiencing firsthand the practical application of physics, chemistry, fire dynamics, and the broad spectrum of sciences that govern fire behavior. “Physically demanding and mentally challenging training is a critical component of our strategic plan. We must ensure our firefighters are skilled tacticians, our officers are talented leaders, and our engineers are gifted designers who understand the challenges of those they support,” said Abulfaraj. To appreciate the grueling conditions presented by live fire conditions, these young engineers are being trained at FrPD’s Advanced Fire Training Center in Ju’aymah, where real fires are deliberately set to emulate specific fire scenarios. The facility was designed to replicate real world conditions such as those present in a raging building fire or hydrocarbon processing unit.

The level of realism and difficulty presented by live fire scenarios at Ju’aymah is unsurpassed. To ensure realism, the designers of this world-class facility selected process equipment earmarked for the scrap yard from across Saudi Aramco operations — a huge spheroid 15 meters in diameter was salvaged from the old Qatif gas-oil separation plant 1, pressure vessels made their way to Ju’aymah from Jiddah, Shedgum, and Yanbu’, and three enormous 100-ton process columns were shipped from Abqaiq. Pumps, heat exchangers, compressors, and hundreds of valves that once served in operating plants were assembled in a specially designed fire resistant process unit.To ensure that these engineers are fully qualified and truly appreciate the difficult tasks required of Saudi Aramco firefighters, they are completing a series of certifications dictated in the Standard for Firefighter Professional Qualifications established by the NFPA Committee on Fire Service Training as the model of professional competencies for firefighters and fire officers in North America.

Certification goes beyond the firefighter’s performance. To be certified, the student must successfully complete a course of study and practical exercises from an accredited training provider. The training provider’s curriculum, testing methods, instructional staff, training facilities, and safety programs are audited to ensure they meet the strict requirements of either the National Board on Fire Service Professional Qualifications or the International Fire Service Accreditation Congress. FrPD is accredited by both organizations to certify firefighters who meet these demanding standards.

FrPD is laying the groundwork for continued excellence in the future through investing in our workforce today.Saudi Aramco and the Saudi Information Technology Company signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the creation of an Information and Communication Technology Investment Company; a joint venture (JV) to invest in commercial enterprises in the information, communication and technology sector. The focus of the new JV will be on opportunities with significant potential for local value creation, with the target market being Saudi Arabia and the GCC countries. The joint venture will also develop a platform for investing in high potential growth companies in the information, communication and technology sector with strategic importance to Saudi Arabia. “The joint venture with Saudi Information Technology Company will provide training and employment to Saudi nationals, as well as support the growth of small and medium-sized enterprises active in the ICT sector in Saudi Arabia and the GCC market” said Saudi Aramco VP for Information Technology, Yousef Al-Ulyan.  “We are exploring promising opportunities with this joint venture that will drive the transformative leap of the digital resilience and technological advancement of the Kingdom and the region,” said Dr. Saad Alaboodi, Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Information Technology Company. He added, “This does not only afford Saudi Information Technology Company a position to pioneer the transformation for realizing Vision 2030 and lead the investment in national human capital and future technologies, but also speaks to the unique culture of service that the company provides to its clients and its mission to empower national capabilities with training and employment.”  Saudi Aramco and Raytheon Company, through its subsidiary Raytheon Saudi Arabia, signed a Memorandum of Understanding to establish a joint venture  company that will develop and provide best-in-class cybersecurity services in Saudi Arabia and the  region.   The joint venture company will market and provide integrated defensive cybersecurity software and hardware capabilities, and perform research and development activities. The JV will increase the cybersecurity protections available to Saudi Aramco, its suppliers, customers and affiliates. It will also help build world-class cyber capabilities in Saudi Arabia and the region. “We are excited about the joint venture which will support the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 by creating highly skilled jobs for Saudis in the cybersecurity sector and will support the foundation for Saudi Arabia’s economic development,” said Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Finance, Strategy & Development Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh.  He added, “Demand for cybersecurity services is expected to grow as companies move further into the digital space and embrace technologies such as Internet of Things and big data. The partnership with Raytheon will help strengthen cybersecurity and enhance its infrastructure in Saudi Arabia and the broader region.”  “Cybersecurity is critical to national and global security,” said Dave Wajsgras, President of Raytheon Intelligence, Information and Services. “This MOU is an important step in creating a joint venture that we see becoming the cornerstone of cybersecurity defenses in the region.”Saudi Aramco was strategic sponsorship of the 8th Saudi Arabia Smart Grid Conference (SASG 2018) held December 11-13, 2018 in Jeddah under the theme “Smart Energy for Sustainable Development,” under the patronage of His Excellency Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources. 
 Abdulkareem Al-Ghamdi, Saudi Aramco Vice President for Power Systems, gave a speech in which he discussed the Fourth Industrial Revolution (IR 4.0), where advanced, smart digital technology has become an inseparable part of businesses and industries given its integration in the physical, digital and critical spheres. This connection is clear in robotics, artificial intelligence, nanotechnology applications, computing and the Internet of Things.
 Al-Ghamdi underlined Saudi Aramco’s vision to lead digital transformation in the energy industry by delineating an approach that supports its technical and administrative activities based on the application of effective technologies. He cited a number of projects that the company is implementing, such as the use of robots and self-guided autonomous devices in remote inspection and maintenance in plant areas, and the installation of smart sensors with advanced analytic capabilities that are connected to advanced digital systems. Such technologies play an effective role in reducing operating costs and enhancing safety.
 Al-Ghamdi pointed out that Saudi Aramco deploys smart control systems in the area of power generation, including the construction of the smart digital control center (iPower) in Dhahran, which is involved in all the company’s operations across the Kingdom. The center aims to achieve a number of strategic goals, such as enhancing the effectiveness of power generation, transmission and distribution; asset management; and the improvement of safety and reliability through the implementation of real-time power management systems in all future power generation projects.
 The strategy of Saudi Aramco’s Power Systems Department is in harmony with Vision 2030 objective of making the Kingdom a global energy hub and the company’s local content strategy represented in the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, both of which require a comprehensive transformation in technical and vocational training. In this regard, Al-Ghamdi said that Saudi Aramco has entered into strategic partnerships with leading scientific institutions and universities specialized in technology and digital applications, including six training centers for girls in the technical and administrative fields. The partnership agreements will also help generate promising jobs for Saudi youth.Saudi Aramco was awarded the Hamdan Bin Mohammad Award for Innovative Project Management for the completion of Phase 1 of its Master Gas System (MGS) Expansion project. The project employed a wide range of efficiency practices to deliver phase 1 of the project before schedule and under budget. The MGS project is a large-scale project undertaken to meet increasing demand for natural gas in Saudi Arabia, and in response to the Kingdom’s direction to complement oil with natural gas as a cleaner burning fuel. The project includes a 660 km-long cross-country pipeline that will deliver natural gas from producing fields on the Eastern coast of the Kingdom to its Western coast. It also includes construction of two major facilities for compressing natural gas that are among the largest of its type in the world. Saudi Aramco Vice President for Project Management, Fahad Al Helal received the award on behalf of Saudi Aramco from H.H. Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of the Dubai Executive Council at a ceremony held in Dubai. The ceremony was organized in conjunction with the Dubai International Project Management Forum and in the presence of dignitaries and executives from the public and private project management sector. Al Helal said: “Saudi Aramco is proud to receive this recognition for the successful project management and completion of Phase 1 of the cross-country gas expansion project. This achievement reflects Saudi Aramco’s commitment to capital efficiency practices to lower capital cost and improve productivity, in order to provide energy to our customers and enable them to power the Kingdom’s economic growth and progress.” He added: “Creativity, flexibility and excellence are the hallmarks of Saudi Aramco’s project management team. Saudi Aramco has a long and successful track record of completing complex and challenging megaprojects where we apply our project management experience to create economic benefits for the Kingdom and its growing project and construction requirements.” The Hamdan Bin Mohammed Award for Innovation in Project Management was launched in 2015 under the patronage of H.H. Sheikh Hamdan bin Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Crown Prince of Dubai and Chairman of the Dubai Executive Council to recognize best practices and excellence in project management and execution worldwide.HRH Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz today broke ground on the King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), located in the Kingdom’s Eastern Province. SPARK is a 50-square-kilometer energy city megaproject which will position Saudi Arabia as a global energy, industrial and technology hub. The first phase of the development will be completed by 2021. SPARK has already attracted investments from foreign and local companies to produce and manufacture goods and services in the Kingdom’s energy sector. The investment in the first phase of the project is expected to be around $1.6 billion.  

Saudi Aramco is at the heart of SPARK’s development, helping bring businesses together to drive efficiencies and promote technological development, manufacturing and exports, as well as build a world-class energy supply chain. SPARK’s role in enabling localization within the Kingdom’s energy supply chain aligns with the strategic goals of Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program.

Highlighting SPARK’s role in unlocking the full potential of the Kingdom’s energy resources in line with its economic transformation plan, H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and  Mineral Resources and Saudi Aramco chairman, said: “SPARK is one of the country’s most ambitious projects, affirming the Kingdom’s commitment to Vision 2030 by creating thousands of high-skilled jobs, serving as an economic catalyst and advancing Saudi Arabia’s strong position in the global energy sector. The energy park’s unique value proposition makes it an ideal destination for companies looking to invest in the thriving Saudi Arabian energy services market.”

Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “The King Salman Energy Park will start a new era of growth for one of the Kingdom’s thriving sectors. It will serve as a central gateway to the region’s economies, with Saudi Aramco continuing to be at the heart of the global oil and gas industry.  We’re looking forward to collaborating with our first anchor partners at SPARK, as we are investing in business opportunities for international investors and private-sector companies in the Kingdom. Together, we are building a world-class energy hub that will accelerate solutions across the value-chain for generations.”

When operational, SPARK is estimated to contribute more than $6 billion to the Kingdom’s GDP annually and create up to 100,000 direct and indirect jobs.The Galveston Bay Foundation recently honored the volunteer efforts of Aramco Services Company (ASC) with its “Guardian of the Bay” award. This award recognizes ASC’s “leadership, work, and commitment for the betterment of Galveston Bay.” Accepting the award on behalf of ASC were director of Public Affairs Abdulrahman A. Bayounis and Strategic Communications supervisor Alma S. Kombargi. 
“ASC is proud to partner with the Galveston Bay Foundation to revitalize such a precious resource,” said Bayounis. “I would like to recognize the efforts of our ASC volunteers who come out year-after-year to give their time and effort to such a worthy cause.” The volunteer efforts are part of Aramco’s global biodiversity program to promote community and environmental involvement in projects that truly make a difference in the world. For many years, ASC volunteers have helped restore sensitive oyster reefs in the bay. The delicate reefs are vital in maintaining the bay’s ecosystem. Hurricanes Harvey and Ike caused serious damage to the reefs when the storms deposited a layer of sediment and debris atop the bottom of the bay, suffocating the live oysters.
ASC volunteers quickly responded after both of these major hurricanes to help save the oyster reefs. The wet, muddy employees, friends, and family members worked hard placing discarded oyster shells from local restaurants into bags and then positioned the bags in the bay to form a new artificial reef. Since ASC’s volunteer efforts began, more than five tons of oyster shells have been recycled to build the new reefs.  Total teamwork has been the key to these successful biodiversity efforts. “We all work as a team to accomplish these great tasks,” said one volunteer. “One bag of oysters by itself doesn’t seem like a lot, but when you add them all up, it really creates a tremendous difference for the marine life and ecosystem in the bay. That resonated with me because, as people, one person may not be able to do it all, but when we all come together and work as a team, we can make a big impact on each other, and on the world around us.” Oyster reefs are documented as the most threatened marine habitat worldwide, with global losses of 85%. Most of Galveston Bay’s oyster reefs have been closed to commercial operations for more than a year after Hurricane Harvey, but are now showing signs of recovery. Much of the storm’s record-setting rainfall flowed into Galveston Bay. Since freshwater is toxic to the oysters, the runoff killed much of the bay’s population. Oyster boat crews working this year’s season have been able to catch the state limit of 30 sacks of oysters. That’s about 3,000 pounds worth, destined for restaurants and tables from Texas to Florida. Protecting the bay’s oyster habitat is vital, not just for those who enjoy eating the delicacy, but for the health of the water.As a business strategy, localization can be right on the money, delivering reliability plus cost and time efficiencies to the bottom line. But the real power of local content development lies in its ability to add value beyond corporate borders, with a competitive boost to local and regional economies. Spurring a ripple effect of job creation, workforce development, technology transfer and local manufacturing, it can even be transformative.  That’s all part of the plan for Saudi Aramco’s supply chain initiative, the In-Kingdom Total Value Add program.  In a real sense, IKTVA aligns with the community engagement that the oil, gas and chemicals giant has manifested for more than 80 years. 

But that practice of giving back – and enabling economic growth – is about to enter a new phase with the King Salman Energy Park. Called SPARK, the megaproject is designed to position Saudi Arabia as a global energy hub that furnishes a dynamic, enabling environment for foreign and domestic investment. 
This unprecedented plan to create a national energy sector for the ground up is an idea whose time has come. 

Targeting exploration, production, refining, petrochemicals, conventional power, and water production and treatment, SPARK will leverage Saudi Aramco’s pivotal role as the world’s most reliable energy supplier – and the world’s leading megaproject manager. With manufacturing and service activities ranging from equipment for drilling, electrical services, and liquids treatment; exploration and production services; to pipes, vessels, tanks, valves, and pumps, SPARK will be sure catalyst for Vision 2030, Saudi Arabia’s plan to diversify the Kingdom’s economy beyond oil and build a thriving private sector. 

Saudi Aramco’s directive is to set SPARK’s foundation as an economic initiative that can attract, establish, and encourage local energy industries capable of competing in the global arena, as well as foster companies specializing in power generation materials and providing engineering and oil field services.  

And as with all strategic business projects, location is everything.

The 50-square-kilometer energy city will be constructed at between Dammam and Al-Hasa in the heart of the Saudi energy business, near major workforce providers and adjacent to highway and railway networks. This location will also allow for integration with Dammam's 3rd Industrial City, as well as proximity to power generation and water sources, and logistical services.

Saudi Aramco began the project by conducting studies and surveys with key international suppliers who concurred on requirements for creating a world-class, sustainable ecosystem: well-developed infrastructure, including a dry port; industrial training institutes; residential compounds; and commercial activities – all providing a one-stop shop to incentivize investment and enable small and medium enterprises, the backbone of a healthy private sector.   
   
By its 2035 completion date, SPARK is expected to support and increase the security of energy supplies that will be offered at competitive prices; lower the costs of the sector-related operational products and services; and enable rapid response from domestic product and service providers to Saudi Aramco’s urgent operational and developmental requirements.

SPARK’s long-term economic effect is expected to result in 100,000 direct and indirect jobs; increase annual GDP by SR 22.5 billion; localize more than 350 new industrial and service facilities; and establish an industrial base that facilitates innovation, development, and global competition.

In this context, SPARK will drive value creation in all of its activities and contribute to Saudi Aramco’s local-content mission to develop a sector that covers 70% of local demand and can export 30% of its products by 2021, as well as create thousands of direct and indirect jobs by 2025. 

With its value proposition so clearly defined, energy industry leaders are committing to SPARK. In December 2017, Schlumberger was the first investor, planning a center for manufacturing onshore oil and gas well platform products, as well as their supply chain products. Negotiations are underway with more than 120 industrial investors in the initial phase. 
And as the developing company, Saudi Aramco will make SPARK its drilling and workover operation headquarters, and home to a supply chain management center.

Construction began in September 2017, and the completion rate for the whole project’s engineering designs is now more than halfway complete. Investors’ plot allocations took place during third-quarter 2018, and the first phase as a whole will be completed in 2021.  

With these carefully calculated components creating an attractive environment for investors, SPARK will be a driver for energy manufacturing and services for the region, plus Africa, Asia and Europe. It will be a crucible for innovation and creation, and for broadening the capacity of our capable, qualified, and highly educated men and women.

As we help reinvent Saudi Arabia for tomorrow’s opportunities, Saudi Aramco welcomes partners to join us in building higher on the Kingdom’s rich resources. SPARK’s wealth of opportunities will also help create a stronger global industry and a more secure energy future – a sure win-win for all. Remarks by Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: good morning.  It is a pleasure to be with you today at one of the chemical industry’s foremost conferences. I would like to thank the GPCA for putting together yet another excellent program.  This is an exciting time for our region’s petrochemicals and chemicals businesses, and the GPCA is to be commended for its advocacy and thought leadership in this vital sector, which I believe can be a key driver of our economies. Ladies and gentlemen, as you are aware, Saudi Aramco is already the world’s leading upstream oil company.  We have an unmatched, lowest-cost oil reserve portfolio, a reputation for reliability, a competitive edge in creating and deploying advanced technologies, and exceptional resilience built over more than eighty years.  Our gas program is especially worth highlighting.  The program will attract investments of about 150 billion dollars over the next decade, with production reaching 23 billion standard cubic feet a day from the current 14 billion.  We also have world-class unconventional gas resources that are rapidly supplementing our large conventional resources.  Because a significant proportion of this unconventional gas is rich in both liquids and ethane, its production will play an important role in the further growth of the Kingdom’s chemicals sector. Currently we have 16 drilling rigs concentrating on unconventional gas and more than 70 wells completed this year.  In addition, we have plans to create an integrated international gas business, which is backed by the vast conventional and unconventional domestic resources I just highlighted. With our Upstream in such a strong position, one of Saudi Aramco’s key strategies is to create a Downstream portfolio that is its equal.  We have plans for substantial expansions in refining, marketing and lubes.  Our ultimate target of 8-10 million barrels per day of integrated refining and marketing capacity will create a better balance between our upstream and downstream segments. But an even more exciting part of our downstream strategy is our future chemicals business, which I believe will make us future-ready—as I will explain. Chemicals alone will represent about one-third of the growth in world oil demand between now and 2030 and nearly half to 2050, ahead of trucks, aviation and shipping.  In absolute terms, petrochemicals will add nearly seven million barrels per day of oil demand by 2050, reaching a total of some 20 million barrels per day.   This will be driven by an expanding world population and an increasing number of people enjoying more affluent lifestyles.  If we look at a country like India, its current per capita consumption for major plastics is just 10 kilograms per year compared to South Korea and Canada, which approach 100 kilograms per capita. So, there is a lot of room for chemicals growth in fast-growing developing countries. Saudi Aramco will make the most of those prospects with global investments in the chemicals space of roughly 100 billion dollars over the next 10 years—in addition to prospective acquisitions.  We are expanding this business both in Saudi Arabia and in fast-growing overseas markets, with the aim of converting two to three million barrels per day of crude oil into petrochemicals. That will provide a reliable destination for Saudi Aramco’s future oil production, and diversify both the company’s business portfolio and the Kingdom’s economy.  It will also capture additional value, and help create thousands of meaningful new jobs. Let me briefly highlight how we will achieve these goals.  There are four key strategies that are receiving special attention. First is the integration of petrochemicals with our expanding global refining and marketing system, with oil feedstock at the heart of this strategy.   We are targeting the conversion of up to 70 percent of the feedstock into petrochemicals.  This challenging goal will be driven by advances in cutting edge technology, which leads me to the second strategy.  Our chemicals vision is supported by the development of groundbreaking crude oil-to-chemicals direct conversion technologies, where we are already seeing major progress in advanced thermal and catalytic cracking processes. That work is being done not only in our own network of R&D centers, but also in partnership with other leading chemical and technology companies like SABIC, CB&I, Axens, and Chevron Lummus Global, as well as academic institutions like China’s Tsinghua University. More broadly, technology will be one of the key enablers for us to build profitable and sustainable businesses.  By developing our own oil-centric chemicals technologies, we will enjoy a sustained competitive edge through our region’s large resource base of oil; capture additional value; and diversify our petrochemicals product slate, since heavier liquid feedstocks like oil offer a much wider product slate than those derived from lighter feedstocks.  The third strategy involves acquisitions.  To reach our bold goal of converting two-to-three million barrels per day of oil into petrochemicals, both organic growth and strategic acquisitions are essential.  I am sure you have all heard about our current negotiations concerning the SABIC transaction, which fits our future vision for chemicals.  SABIC is a world-class chemicals company and our strengths complement each other.  Of course, we will continue to scan the horizon for other compelling opportunities for growth. Fourth and last, our agenda extends beyond the core chemicals business itself into end-use applications of chemical products, so that we can help grow new industries. That’s why we are giving special attention to developing and promoting cutting-edge non-metallic materials derived from petrochemicals.  I see great potential in non-metallic materials as a substitute for natural materials in a wide range of high growth industries.  These include automotive, housing, construction, packaging, oil and gas, renewables, and others. To move the needle, we have established a Non-Metallic Innovation Centre at Cambridge in the UK.  It is developing non-metallic technologies for oil and gas field applications, with partners from academia, research centers, oil and gas companies, and composite materials manufacturers.  Further downstream, we aspire to usher in a new era of industrial diversification across the Kingdom, anchored by specialty chemicals and underpinned by small-to-medium enterprises producing high-value finished and semi-finished products.  In fact, our signature localization initiative, IKTVA, whose fourth anniversary we celebrated just yesterday, will also complement and support the downstream conversion sector by offering a reliable and efficient supply chain.   Early steps in downstream value addition involve Saudi Aramco’s collaboration with the Ministry of Energy, Industry & Mineral Resources and other entities to build value parks adjacent to petrochemical facilities.  This strategy will create opportunities for economic diversification and job creation, consistent with the aspirations of Saudi Vision 2030. Our downstream strategy and its chemicals-focused components will enable progress toward multiple objectives, including strengthening the future position of oil and adding greater economic value.  In addition to diversifying our business portfolio, it will also make Saudi Aramco more robust and resilient, and deliver results regardless of market volatility. Looking more broadly, I’m convinced that the Gulf’s chemical industry can become one of the key drivers of industrialization, value addition and job creation in the region.  With the region’s immense hydrocarbon resources, we ought to be leading global players in petrochemicals manufacturing, their conversion, and enabling new industries. The Gulf unfortunately missed out on the early specialties cycle.  But we cannot afford to let the forthcoming cycle pass us by now.  The tremendous growth in chemicals demand provides us with a fantastic window of opportunity—but such windows by their very nature offer maximum benefit only to those who act quickly.  Also, those opportunities will not fall into our hands; instead, we must actively pursue them.  Ladies and gentlemen, by focusing on the oil feedstock and being creators of technology rather than simply consumers, we have an opportunity to shape a brighter tomorrow by acting today. That requires compelling visions, sound strategies, the creation and implementation of breakthrough technologies, the cultivation of top-tier talent, effective execution, and above all delivery of results. That is the collective challenge for our sector, so let us make the most of the opportunities before us. Thank you for your attention this morning, and I wish you a productive Forum.Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser today told delegates attending the 13th annual Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA) Forum that a key Saudi Aramco objective is to bring its downstream business to the same prominence as its upstream, as the company undergoes substantial expansions in refining, marketing and lubes. In line with the forum theme “Exceeding Transformation & Investing in Growth,” Nasser commented on Saudi Aramco’s pivotal role in enabling new industrial and business partnerships as well as infrastructure, not only in core oil and gas downstream, but also in advanced technologies and energy-related, value-adding activities. 
“Our ultimate target of 8-10 million barrels per day of integrated refining and marketing capacity will create a better balance between our upstream and downstream segments,” Nasser said. In a keynote speech before executives and experts from the world’s leading manufacturers, suppliers, and others spanning the chemicals and petrochemicals sector, Nasser highlighted chemicals as the most promising element of the company’s downstream strategy. He said that chemicals will represent about one-third of world oil demand growth between now and 2030, and nearly half by 2050.  Petrochemicals will add nearly seven million barrels per day (bpd) of oil demand by 2050, reaching a total of some 20 million bpd.  This growth will be driven by an expanding world population and a growing middle class enjoying more affluent lifestyles.  
Nasser said: “Saudi Aramco will make the most of those prospects with chemicals investments of more than $100 billion over the next 10 years—not including a prospective acquisition.  We are expanding this business both in Saudi Arabia and in fast-growing overseas markets like China and India, with the aim of converting two million barrels per day of crude oil into petrochemicals—and we may eventually move our target higher to three million barrels.”  He added, “Our downstream business ventures will provide a reliable destination for Saudi Aramco’s future oil production, and diversify both the company’s business portfolio and the Kingdom’s economy.” Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy seeks to enhance its resource base by targeting increased horizontal and vertical integration across the hydrocarbon value chain.  “With a diversified, integrated, and robust business portfolio,” Nasser said, “our supply, trading, and marketing model will mitigate oil price volatility, generate additional revenues, and expand opportunities for conversion industries, local manufacturers, and service providers —all of which drive job growth and value creation.” 
Negotiations are underway for a major share in Riyadh-based diversified chemicals leader SABIC, with the aim of creating one of the world’s strongest integrated energy and chemicals companies. The acquisition would leverage Saudi Aramco’s innovative developments in crude oil to chemicals technology, or C2C, a process that eliminates the refinery stage to transform crude oil directly into valuable petrochemicals. Held on November 26-28 in Dubai, the GPCA Forum is the region’s leading downstream-focused industry event, boasting an attendance of more than 2,000 delegates from almost 600 companies in 50 countries.Saudi Aramco hosted its 4th IKTVA Forum & Exhibition this week at the Dhahran Expo Center in Dammam, attracting more than 1,000 local and international energy-sector service and equipment suppliers, manufacturers and small and medium enterprises to explore available investment opportunities with Saudi Aramco in the upstream, chemicals, utilities, non-metallic, IT and cybersecurity, and other areas. The annual flagship event supports the In Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, Saudi Aramco’s localization strategy to build a world-class supply chain and establish Saudi Arabia as a globally-competitive energy hub in line with Vision 2030, the Kingdom’s economic diversification program. Held November 26-27 under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, governor of the Eastern Province, the Forum offered presentations, workshops and panels on best practices in navigating such areas as regulatory requirements, financing, R&D and talent development. In addition to the signing of MoUs and commercial collaborations, an awards program was held to celebrate the program’s success stories for the year (awarded companies are listed below).  IKTVA participation is mandatory for every Saudi Aramco supplier, as the program aims to attain 70 percent local content, create thousands of jobs and export 30 percent of local energy goods and services output by 2021. Partnerships support local content by contributing to job creation, technology transfer, training and development, and R&D. By 2030, the program aims to establish 30 training centers helping prepare 360,000 highly skilled graduates for jobs of the future.  In return, companies with a local presence can take advantage of more than SAR 1.7 trillion being spent by Saudi Aramco on localization opportunities over the next decade.  
“Our 2018 IKTVA Forum marked the half-way point to our local-content goals, and the event has underlined the win-win nature of our program with many of our international suppliers increasing their market share or moving their manufacturing to the Kingdom,” said Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser. “Over the two-day event, we signed $27.5 billion in a total of 31 commercial collaborations. Companies that have invested here are ideally positioned to benefit further with our signing last month of SAR 125 billion in business at the Future Investment Initiative in Riyadh, much of which will have a direct impact on IKTVA. As of now, 51 percent of each riyal Saudi Aramco earmarks for materials and services is spent locally.” The annual IKTVA Forum & Exhibition is the leading global energy supply-chain event, driving additional domestic value and maximizing sustainable, long-term growth for the Kingdom’s changing economy.  The event attracted more than 1,000 companies; some 4,000 participants from 40 countries; and more than 80 exhibitors. The MoUs and commercial collaborations included the following companies and entities: The IKTVA 2018 Excellence Awards winners:        Your Royal Highness, Your Highnesses, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are deeply honored that His Royal Highness, the Amir of the Eastern Province, Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz, could be with us for the fourth year in a row. And we truly appreciate the presence of all our guests – from within the Kingdom and especially those who have traveled a long way.
 We always value your partnership and friendship, but we particularly appreciate and remember it during difficult times.
 
We reunite at the half-way mark in our iktva journey.
 As in a football match, this is a chance for all of us in the iktva team to reflect on our first half performance.

And it is a crucial opportunity to inject fresh energy, and re-focus on what we need to do to win the game.
 
Looking back at the first half, it began with a vision.
We realized that without a world-class, localized oil and gas supply chain, we would not only be missing a huge business opportunity but making our future increasingly unsustainable.
 
We would also be failing a generation of talented young Saudis who want to put their education to work here at home.
 
And we needed to inject some real urgency.
 
So we set ourselves an almost impossible challenge – and that is to have 70 cents in every dollar we spend on materials and services spent right here in the Kingdom by 2021. That vision would come to define and drive iktva.
A few months after iktva was launched, it was given a huge boost with the launch of Saudi Vision 2030.
 
It called for a thriving, diversified, highly skilled, economy with digital transformation in order to build multiple economic engines.
Other industries would also require world-class localized supply chains.
 
In other words, iktva and Vision 2030 were deeply aligned.
 
From the very beginning we realized that three strategies were critical to iktva’s success:

•	long-term partnerships with our strategic suppliers and manufacturers;

•	in parallel, building a thriving SME sector;

•	and uniting to overcome the hurdles along the way.
 
But when we launched iktva in 2015, we knew that if it was seen as creating value only for Saudi Aramco it would never succeed.
 
It had to be creating value to us and to our partners at the same time.
We had to show you that iktva is genuinely about creating more value for your businesses.
 
We had to show you that helping to make Vision 2030 a reality would generate further business.
And you had to see for yourselves why locating where a large share of future business is going to be; building strong, long-term partnerships; transferring technology; and developing local talent makes such commercial and strategic sense.
 
So iktva began with an inspiring vision, and a totally new mindset.
 
And with close to half a trillion dollars of capital investment by Saudi Aramco over the next 10 years, you know we have the business.
What is more, with iktva now being adapted to many other areas of the economy, and with many supply chains overlapping, the Kingdom’s entire industrialization program is now in play.
 
But where the rubber meets the road is translating those opportunities into genuine results with lasting impact.
 
And, for me, three areas stand out.
  First, we have made huge strides in delivering the economic ecosystem our investors and suppliers need to thrive.
The important anchor projects are falling into place.
 
The King Salman Maritime Complex at Ras Al-Khair is making significant headway.
 
Meanwhile, the massive King Salman Energy Park shows how we are helping our manufacturers and suppliers to locate here and procure services at the epicenter of the global energy sector.
 
We are also working hard with all government Ministries and Agencies to make it easier for you and your employees to do business here.
 
Crucially, we are building the human capital that will bring the ecosystem to life.
 
For example, we now have 16 national training academies aimed at boosting national capacity, with 14 more to come by 2030.
More than 16,000 Saudis have graduated from these academies, with skills to international standards, covering more than 30 disciplines.
 
These graduates are meeting the needs of the private sector for skilled manpower in areas such as drilling, oil and gas operations, power systems, and also in maintenance, construction, and inspection.
 
In an increasingly digitized world, that number will grow – for example, to meet demand for data scientists and cyber security experts.
  Second, the change in mindset I just mentioned has aligned us in ways we could not have dreamt of before itkva.
But it did not happen overnight.
 
We listened to your concerns (and still do) with regular, two-way engagement.
 
Now, iktva is increasingly part of everyone’s DNA, with major suppliers now asking their own supply chains for their iktva percentages.
  Third, and most important of all, we are seeing actual win-win results.
 
Later today, we will be signing 31 Agreements and MOUs worth more than 27 billion dollars.
 
If you add that to what we signed at the Future Investment Initiative in Riyadh last month that is more than 60 billion dollars of business.
So the business, and the appetite, are only growing.
   And the results are plain to see:

•	Since 2015, our suppliers have doubled their local spend on materials and services.

•	They have increased their Saudi workforce by 25 percent.

•	Training and development of Saudis has increased four fold.

•	Our suppliers have enjoyed a 45 percent increase in exports, worth 1.4 billion dollars.

•	Iktva has now been included in 50 billion dollars of our procurement.

•	And it gives me great pleasure to announce that at the half-way mark in our journey to 2021 we have achieved 51 percent local content.
 
But 51 percent is not 70 percent, and there are several areas where huge improvements are required if we are to get there.
 
To those that have started, you need to push even harder.
And to those that have yet to start, you need to move quickly.
 
We want to see true value add, with many more companies conducting their R&D here in the Kingdom – and I mean substantial and meaningful research.
We want to see many more companies entering the export market.
 
And we want to see those anchor projects completed, and a wave of Saudis moving through those national training academies.
 
Above all, I hear from many of our international suppliers about the new business that has come their way thanks to iktva, and how they have increased their market share.
 
They now see iktva as the win-win it is.
 
I want to see and feel that same excitement from our Saudi private sector suppliers, particularly SMEs.
Because they are the cornerstone of our success.
 
Ladies and Gentlemen, it is time for the second half.
 
The vision is clear; the enablers are coming together; and you have my personal word on Saudi Aramco’s full commitment to iktva.
 
Let’s run faster… jump higher… tackle stronger… and win the game.
 
Iktva is the hope of a generation that needs to be ready for the jobs of the future and needs all of us to play a leading role in creating them.
So when we invest in iktva we are not only investing in win-win business opportunities.
We are investing in educated, qualified, and skilled young Saudis…
who are willing to work in the roughest and toughest places out there… and only want their nation and their families to be proud of them.
 
So let’s give them that chance, and secure our future, their future, and the future of this great nation.
 
Thank you.  Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program is designed to locally source the company’s massive supply chain by incentivizing investment by international and local equipment and service providers, and small and medium enterprises (SMEs). More than 400 companies supplying 24 commodities are currently IKTVA partners, working with the energy and chemicals giant to drive domestic value creation for mutual benefit. 
Here are some of the program’s success stories, showcasing how localization positions partners for competitive advantage, while it helps build a more diversified economy, a stronger workforce, and greater innovation and R&D capabilities. 
Baker Hughes, a GE company (BHGE), has been operating in the Kingdom for more than 80 years, beginning with the discovery of Dammam Well No. 7, or Prosperity Well, in 1938. BHGE operates more than 10 manufacturing, assembly, maintenance and research and development facilities aimed at boosting local potential and capabilities. BHGE’s vital facilities in the Kingdom include a drill bit plant that has locally manufactured and exported an unprecedented 10,000 drill bits to more than 40 countries since 2011. Its holdings also include a pressure control facility that is one of Baker Hughes’ largest companies worldwide, and the Dhahran Global Technology Center at Dhahran Techno Valley that works with customers to address unconventional reservoir challenges. BHGE employs more than 2,650 employees in the Kingdom, of whom more than 1,400 are Saudis, and more than 36% are women in science and engineering positions. BHGE is committed to helping build a solid supply chain the Kingdom, given that its supplier base includes more than 1,350 local suppliers and its spending on local procurement exceeds SR300 million annually. At BHGE, localization is more than a commitment to meet the set targets, as the company seeks to establish connections covering all facets of the local economy through technology and knowledge transfer, local and global job opportunities, value addition across the local supply chain, and a local manufacturing base. Affirming its commitment to the Vision 2030 and IKTVA, BHGE developed a strategy to invest in significant projects such as the King Salman Energy Park (SPARK), Jubail Industrial City (JIC), and Dammam Second Industrial City. Schlumberger, the world’s leading oil and gas technology provider, has significantly contributed to promoting local content and effectively aligned with IKTVA to bring about a quantum leap in its operations, as the company’s strategy is centered on doubling its local procurement by 2021, hitting 70% job localization by 2020, promoting local industries, and embarking on exportation. During 2018, Schlumberger hired roughly 732 Saudis in engineering and administrative positions. Last year, Schlumberger’s procurement from the Saudi market in 2017 made up more than 37% of its total sales in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia during the same period. In line with its plans to add new industries boosting local content, Schlumberger has leased 500,000 square meters in King Salman Energy Park (SPARK) to set up an industrial complex serving local and regional markets. Construction commenced in early 2018, with the completion of second phase by late 2019. The Arabian Drilling Company (ADC), incorporated in 1964, highlights IKTVA’s role in fostering localization in onshore and offshore oil and gas exploration. Since its inception, ADC has developed a creative localization, Saudization and training strategy focusing on quality employment and innovative training to develop and retain high-caliber Saudi workers. Though ADC has received two IKTVA award over the past two years – the “Best Staff Recognition Employer” in 2016 and “Best Staff Training and Development Employer” in 2017 – the company’s ambition knows no bounds as it works consistently to meet IKTVA’s ambitious ratios. ADC has hired around 2,400 Saudis since 2015, and will graduate around 450 apprentices from its diverse in house apprenticeship programs.
ADC’s spend on local procurement to total procurement increased from dramatically from 42% in 2014 to 72% in 2017. Backed by Wa'ed, Saudi Aramco’s entrepreneurship center, AZR Technologies seeks to be a key enabler in the Saudi oil and gas industry, a pacesetter in localization, and an innovator of high tech services and industries. AZR Technologies is the first Saudi company to provide oil and water well downhole inspection services. AZR Technologies has been significantly supported by IKTVA, which helped create a business enabling environment where leading companies can synergize with new startups, as AZR has become able to add value to those startups and provide training opportunities for their employees. With plans to align with IKTVA through 2021, AZR Technologies seeks to further localize its operations and procurement from its current 65% spending on local procurement, further diversify and export its well downhole inspection services to neighboring markets, and create hundreds of job opportunities and professional training for talented Saudis. Though still under incorporation, AZR Technologies has localized 70% of all positions in oil well inspection, and provided more than 900 training hours to its employees in certified training institutes – not to mention in house and on job training. Innovative Software, LLC (Innosoft) serves as a role model for entrepreneurship. The vibrant technology company presents an opportunity to add much value to economic diversification, and actively contribute to the roll-out of innovative, industry specific technological solutions. Incorporated in early 2011, this Saudi organization acts as a think tank designed to provide groundbreaking technological solutions to the biggest challenges facing businesses and the local market. Driven by its position in Wa’ed’s Network of Entrepreneurs, Innosoft earned the prestigious Dr. Ghazi Al Gosaib Award for Best Promising Enterprise, was rated among the Kingdom’s top 100 innovative and leading enterprises by Forbes, and earned Saudi Aramco’s IKTVA Award for the Best SME in 2017. Innosoft pursues expansion and wider contribution in digital transformation and local production by relying primarily on the talented Saudis who make up 80% of its manpower. In addition, Innosoft holds annual undergraduate training and development programs as part of its administrative and professional training program. With 85% of Innosoft’s requirements procured locally, the company is in the process of offering more new services and products, including digital transformation, to the local market over the next few years. Innosoft currently exports 5% of its services and products.Saudi Aramco today honored four local Saudi vendors for delivering quality goods during a ceremony held in conjunction with the 2018 Saudi Aramco Quality Forum, organized under the theme “Toward Quality Excellence.”  The event, seeks to transform local manufacturers’ quality performance to be globally competitive, by fostering a quality-focused culture within the local industry.  It also helps foster healthy competition between local manufacturers and to increase Saudization within the manufacturing quality workforce. Saudi Aramco Acting Executive Head for Engineering Services Motaz Al Mashouk, said: “For decades, our local business partners successfully served our need to supply substantial amount of materials and equipment that meet our specifications and demanding quality standards. These services helped us at Saudi Aramco to sustain one of the most reliable oil and gas facilities in the world and protect our valuable supply chain.” Saudi Aramco Acting Chief Engineer Jamil Al-Bagawi said: “The 2018 Saudi Aramco Quality Forum and the quality excellence prizes awarded today to local vendors represent Saudi Aramco’s commitment towards quality, safety and excellence, as well as the development of a globally competitive local manufacturing industries. By stirring a healthy competition in the local manufacturing market, Saudi Aramco is enabling a quality-focused culture within the local industry in pursuit of quality excellence. The “Local Manufacturers Quality Excellence Award” honor highest quality performing local manufacturers supplying products to Saudi Aramco.  The awarded companies include:Saudi Aramco successfully concluded its participation in the 2018 Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition & Conference (ADIPEC) held November 12-15 in Abu Dhabi by reinforcing its leadership position in the regional and global energy industry. 
 Hosted by the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC), ADIPEC offered a global platform for showcasing Saudi Aramco’s role as the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals producer.
 The Saudi Aramco exhibition booth was one of the primary attractions among ADIPEC’s delegates and attendees. Saudi Aramco was honored to receive high profile visits by Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi, Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al-Nahyan; Vice President and Prime Minister of United Arab Emirates and Ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum; and Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, His Excellency Khalid Al Falih.
 In line with the conference theme of “Digitalization in Energy,” Saudi Aramco’s engagement emphasized hydrocarbons as the world’s most reliable energy source, and highlights the company’s use of technology and innovation to maximize assets and improve operational efficiency, reliability and productivity.
 Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser attended ADIPEC’s opening ceremony and signed a memorandum of understanding to collaborate on liquefied natural gas with ADNOC.
 As part of the “Growth, Vertical Integration and Expansion” panel on Nov. 13, Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Senior Vice President of Downstream, spoke about Saudi Aramco’s strategy of expanding and integrating Downstream operations across the value chain from oil supply and marketing to refining, petrochemicals and lubricants. This will help Saudi Aramco attract new revenue streams and broaden economic opportunities, including crude oil to chemicals conversion technologies.
 Saudi Aramco  also received a number of accolades and recognitions at the ADIPEC Awards. The first award was received by the EXPEC ARC (Geophysics Technology Team) for Outstanding Project of The Year for Driving Performance and Efficiency. The team won the award for their Seismic acquisition technology dispersed source array (3D-DSA) project. The second award was received by the Research and Development Center for Breakthrough Research of The Year for their Project: The detection of Corrosion under insulation (DCUI). Saudi Aramco’s Shamael Al-Shuhail was also recognized as the Young ADIPEC Engineer of The Year.
 Saudi Aramco technologies profiled at ADIPEC included SWIM-R, a shallow-water inspection and repair robot capable of examining underwater assets, enhancing safety and cost efficiency; and SAIR, a modular inspection robotic technology for asset integrity monitoring. The company’s exhibit also offers an immersive virtual reality display allowing visitors to experience frac-site, drilling and offshore rig simulations and fire safety visualizations on 3-D screens.
Saudi Aramco today hosted a visit by the Board of Directors of US-based National Oilwell Varco (NOV), a leading provider of technology, equipment, and services to the global oil and gas industry that supports customers’ full-field drilling, completion, and production needs. The NOV delegation was led by its Chairman and CEO, Clay Williams and included the company’s executive leadership. On hand to receive Williams and the NOV delegation was Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser and the company’s senior executives including Senior Vice President of Upstream, Mohammed Al-Qahtani.

In June 2018, Saudi Aramco and NOV announced the signing of the shareholder agreement to form a joint venture partnership to establish an integrated world-class on-shore rig and equipment manufacturing and aftermarket facility in Ras Al-Khair in Saudi Arabia. Per the shareholder agreement, Saudi Aramco will own 30% of the joint venture’s shares, while NOV will own the remaining 70%.

“The visit of NOV’s board today marks a further milestone in Saudi Aramco’s partnership with one of the world’s leading equipment and service providers to the world’s oil and gas industry. Only recently, we had France’s Total committing to invest in a major petrochemicals project in Jubail, and we also have niche industry players like NOV expanding their presence in Saudi Arabia, which strongly demonstrates that the Kingdom’s oil and gas sector continues to attract investments from companies across the energy value chain,’’ said Nasser.        

It is estimated that the JV facility will create local employment when fully operational for around 1,100 people in multiple disciplines and levels of expertise. Moreover, the facility will contain a world class training center installed with the latest equipment and simulators to provide the required training for Saudi’s as Saudization levels are expected to be at least 65% at the facility.

The joint venture is currently under formation and the construction of the facility is expected to commence by the end of the year. Moreover, the SAGIA Industrial, Service, and Trading Investment licenses have already been officially received.

This JV will also increase the prospect for future growth of the oil and gas industry in the MENA region, creating new opportunities to meet local demand, and further strengthening exports from Saudi Arabia to the region. 

During the recent Future Investment Initiative (FII) Forum in Riyadh, NOV was one of many international companies, which signed high-impact commercial collaborations with Saudi Aramco. Collaboration with companies such as NOV is aligned with Saudi Vision 2030 by helping to diversify the local economy, add more value domestically, assist in Kingdom industrialization, promote job creation and pave way for Saudi Aramco’s aspiration of achieving 70% localization among its suppliers by 2021 under its flagship In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) initiative.Theme of first non-metallic symposium “Endless Possibilities by Chemical Integration”, serving as a platform for industry majors to exchange ideas on future nonmetallic business opportunities and showcase their development work. In his keynote address, Saudi Aramco's senior vice president of Technical Services Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi said Aramco was actively pursuing nonmetallics to improve the efficiency and performance of its own operations, and to move the company beyond traditional markets. Outlining four key sectors where nonmetallic products can add value — oil and gas, automotive, construction, and packaging — Al Sa’adi said: “The opportunities are huge, and this is why Saudi Aramco has set a goal of playing a leading role in accelerating the deployment of the nonmetallic materials business globally.”  Twenty years ago, Saudi Aramco commenced a nonmetallic road map with a goal of reducing the annual cost of corrosion by 10%. “As we all know, corrosion can affect the safety, integrity, and reliability of operating facilities,” Al Sa’adi said. “And the cost of corrosion is huge. “Some of our flow line network — mainly built from carbon steel — has been susceptible to corrosion damage because of exposure to common oil field fluids, H2S, CO2, and even bacteria,” he added. “But we have found that Reinforced Thermoplastic Pipe (RTP) used in flow line applications is quite successful in controlling corrosion.”  In the automotive sector, Al Sa’adi said there was tremendous growth potential for polymers, which is the most prevalent material in vehicles after metals. “The current automotive plastic market is expected to double between 2017 and 2025,” he said. “Disruptions in the automotive business, such as the rise of lightweight electric vehicles and integrated mobility providers, will favor more utilization of nonmetallic materials as seen by the number of emerging nonmetallic developments to replace metallic components.” With regard to building and construction, Al Sa’adi said Saudi Aramco was already making use of polymer in construction. “We recently implemented the corrosion-resistant fiber reinforced polymer rebar in the foundations of a 400-meter long perimeter in one of our construction projects,” he noted. “In a parallel effort, we are undertaking a major initiative to use fiber reinforced polymer rebar in a 21-kilometer long storm water drainage channel in our Jazan Economic City project. Once built, it will be the largest project in the world ever to be constructed using fiber reinforced polymer rebar.”.  As for packaging, Al Sa’adi said, plastic in industrial and transport packaging markets has a large potential for accelerated adoption. Saudi Aramco’s long-term strategy is to expand the company’s downstream activities by unlocking growth opportunities from nonmetallic materials, thereby extracting maximum value across the hydrocarbon value chain. Earlier this year, Saudi Aramco opened the Nonmetallic Innovation Center on the Welding Institute Campus outside Cambridge University, U.K., to conduct research and development of nonmetallic technologies. With 30% of oil’s increase in demand expected to come from petrochemicals by 2030, and a further 50% petrochemical growth for the period 2030-50, the company is planning to shift 2 million barrels per day toward the development of integrated refining and chemicals production. Through developments such as nonmetallic materials, Saudi Aramco is looking to establish itself as a leading petrochemical and energy enterprise, and in so doing, reduce its carbon footprint by minimizing production life cycles and localizing manufacture.Saudi Aramco and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) today signed a framework agreement to explore opportunities for collaboration in the Natural Gas and Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) sector. The cooperation brings together two of the world’s leading energy producers from the Arabian Gulf to jointly work together in an area of strategic importance for both companies as they seek to boost revenues from the natural gas and LNG business segments.

The agreement was signed by Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO, and His Excellency Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO on the sidelines of ADIPEC. 

Saudi Aramco and ADNOC will jointly assess investment opportunities across the natural gas and LNG value chain, exchange technical knowledge and expertise in natural gas and LNG growth markets.

Nasser said: “Our partnership with ADNOC continues to strengthen, after the recent decision to jointly develop a major refinery in India. We have shared strategic interest to expand our gas businesses, and this new agreement underlines our confidence in strong global gas demand growth. Our cooperation further supports the corporate transformation strategy of both ADNOC and Saudi Aramco to pursue opportunities that help unlock greater value for both companies, and meet the growing needs of stakeholders around the world that depend on our energy to develop and grow their economies.”

Al Jaber said: “The UAE and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia have a strong relationship built on shared strategic interests. Increased cooperation between ADNOC and Saudi Aramco will ensure greater energy security and long-term economic prosperity for both nations.” 

“This agreement reinforces our strategy to undertake partnerships with forward-thinking partners who can help accelerate access to new growth centers of global demand. It will ensure that we are well positioned to secure greater returns from global natural gas and LNG demand growth by combining the technological and operational expertise of two of the world’s leading National Oil Companies.”

ADNOC LNG, a subsidiary of ADNOC, is a reliable LNG supplier with a proven track record over 40 years and 2% of the global share of the LNG market. 

LNG is the fastest-growing hydrocarbon with a growth rate of 4% per annum. Global LNG demand is expected to exceed 500 million tonnes per annum by 2035, up from nearly 300 million tonnes per annum in 2017. Strategic collaboration between Saudi Arabia and Russia continues to progress with Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser attending the groundbreaking ceremony of a new Saudi Aramco Research Center at the MSU Science Park. The Center is Saudi Aramco’s ninth R&D facility outside the Kingdom and will focus on upstream technologies in simulation and modeling, advanced materials, data analytics and artificial intelligence. It promotes collaborative research activities primarily with MSU and other entities in Russia.  
Saudi Aramco CEO, Amin H. Nasser, said: “Saudi Aramco welcomes the collaboration with Lomonosov Moscow State University, an institution globally renowned for its centuries-old tradition of academic excellence, and its importance to the oil and gas industry. Strong partnerships between industry and academia are key to addressing society’s energy challenges, and Saudi Aramco’s global research center at MSU Science Park will help drive research and innovation to develop new technology solutions.” The groundbreaking at MSU Science Park follows the announcement of a Memorandum of Understanding signed in August 2018 by the two partners.  At the event, a research agreement between Saudi Aramco and MSU was signed to enable collaborative research projects between the two entities.  “Our ongoing strategic engagements and discussions with partners in Russia are taking our relationship to new heights. We advance our shared interests in stewarding our nations’ rich hydrocarbon resources, providing reliable energy sources to the world,” Nasser added.Saudi Aramco and Chinese entities Tsinghua University, FAW Jiefang Automotive Wuxi Diesel Works (FAWDE), and Shandong Chambroad Petrochemicals Company today announced the start of a research program dedicated to fuel and engine optimization, and exhaust after-treatment technologies. For the first time a major energy company, engine manufacturer, petrochemicals company, and a renowned university come together to develop advanced fuel and engine technologies to reduce emissions. 
This cooperation aims to develop ultra-low emission fuel and engine technologies that would meet the most stringent future emission regulations. Under the research program, Saudi Aramco will propose new fuel formulations, support its flagship technology Gasoline Compression Ignition, and further develop mobile carbon capture technologies as a viable route to achieve lower greenhouse gas emissions. Chambroad Petrochemical will conduct refinery modelling, techno-economic analysis, and produce new fuels for testing. And FAWDE will provide prototype engines and after-treatment systems, as well as conduct system integration and vehicle demonstration. This collaboration aligns with the partners’ strategic intent to create solutions for CO2 reduction taking total emissions into consideration, while delivering efficient, reliable engine and fuels performance.Esteemed Rector Victor Sadovnichy, Vice Rectors, faculty and staff of Lomonosov Moscow State University, dobroye utro and a very good morning to you. I am delighted to be back in Moscow, this time to mark the formal beginning of our strategic research collaboration with the Lomonosov Moscow State University. Therefore, today is a milestone moment for Saudi Aramco, for the energy industry and also for our two global energy-power nations. 
For Saudi Aramco, the Master Research Agreement with MSU is a further extension of our partnership with world-class institutions. MSU is globally renowned for its centuries-old tradition of excellence and highly recognized for its importance to the oil and gas industry. Only a few moments ago, I had the privilege and honor of breaking new ground for the Aramco Research Center at Moscow State University Science Park.  When this Center opens next year, it will be the ninth Saudi Aramco research facility located outside of Saudi Arabia.  We have established research centers in South Korea, France, the Netherlands, the United States, the United Kingdom, China, and now here in Russia. We believe that the key to our industry’s sustainable future is to build strong partnerships for the long term.  Indeed, this is a continuation of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to become a leader in energy-related technology creation and innovation.  Advanced technology is now at the very core of almost everything we do.  It is central to identifying and developing new ways to increase discovery and recovery, to protecting the environment and at the same time also unlocking new value-adding non-combustible uses for oil. For the energy sector as a whole, our partnership represents one more milestone in the strategic collaboration between some of the world’s brightest minds and the world’s most vital industry.  Indeed, no other industry is as critical as the oil and gas industry to the global economy and more importantly to meet the aspirations of billions of people for better standards of living.  The urgent challenge we face as an industry is to find ways to meet the growing demand for more energy – particularly in the developing world – while also significantly reducing emissions.  That is why Saudi Aramco is particularly pleased to be able to work with MSU, which has deep roots, a long history and unrivalled strength in science and technology capabilities. MSU also has a strong reputation in its incredible ability to meet overwhelming challenges and we look forward to tapping into the reservoir of highly talented and highly resilient individuals from the University. Indeed, I want to thank Rector Sadovnichy, the Vice Rectors and all the staff for their support in helping us move forward in establishing the Aramco Research Center. Finally, for our two nations, it is an important milestone in a partnership built on a common interest – namely, the desire to ensure a sustainable future for the use of oil and gas.  Our two nations are energy power-houses, individually possessing significant reserves of oil and gas and collectively we can achieve much more together. That is why I firmly believe our collaboration underpinned by the Aramco Research Center at the MSU Science Park will help us to achieve our long-term strategic objectives to utilize our precious resources responsibly and efficiently. In closing, let me add that I am looking forward with anticipation of the future, where great minds from Aramco and MSU will come together to solve the world’s energy challenges. I am looking forward to inaugurating the Aramco Research Center.  It won’t just be a modern building with cutting-edge equipment but a center of true excellence.  A place where theories will be turned into practical applications, where ideas will become value-adding innovations, where amazing breakthroughs will most certainly happen. And a place where Russia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia come together to shape the future of the world’s oil and gas landscape.  Spasiba and thank you for listening.Saudi Aramco made an influential showing at the Society of Exploration Geophysicists’ annual convention in California, with an array of the world’s leading seismic experts, contributing to more than 35 panels and scientific papers presented at the event. Panels led by Aramco scientists spanned an array of innovation themes. One examined the use of data collected by helicopters to create images of sand dunes, another looked at a new way to find seismic faults using neural network-based technology, and a third talked about using seismic and other real-time data to look ahead of the drill bit to make important geosteering adjustments on the fly. The latter included a discussion on the DrillCam tool Aramco developed to predict ahead of the bit and see around drilling activity. 
Representatives from production companies met with service providers at the event, which attracts about 6,000 professionals each year to discuss latest advancements in onshore and offshore exploration, as the industry moves further into digital tools and robotics.  “The event is an excellent place to interact with service companies from around the world that do seismic work for us and to see the latest innovative equipment on display,” said Saudi Aramco chief geophysicist Turki M. Al Ghamdi.  Aramco scientists participated in several other sessions and workshops at this year’s conference, joined by many Aramco-sponsored students currently studying geophysics in the U.S. Two of these focused on data analytics, artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning for geosciences. Weichang Li, senior researcher at the Aramco Research Center in Houston, was a speaker, panelist, and organizer at these sessions. He also gave a tutorial on machine learning: “There are several areas where data analytics, AI, and machine learning can provide a new perspective or advantage when applied to geosciences,” said Li. “These include automated and integrated processing, improved processing performance, new ways to quantify uncertainty, and ultimately, improved decision making.” Li said that the geosciences are ripe for AI, which has already been leveraged in other industries such as e-commerce (Amazon), social media (Facebook), search (Google), medical imaging (GE, Siemens), and finance. “Artificial intelligence and machine learning are emerging areas for geoscientists with rapid development that might change industrial practices in many areas,” Li added.  Visitors to the convention were able to see three presentations at the Saudi Aramco booth led by seismic researchers based in Dhahran.  Petroleum engineer Mohammed M. Alhussain gave a speech on “Quantitative Seismic Integrated Modeling Workflows: Reducing Field Development Uncertainty.” Geophysicist Rashed M. Ghenaim, spoke to conference attendees about modern 3-D technologies for sub-salt imaging in complex marine environments, showing how instruments can be deployed to collect data while working around obstacles such as islands.  Finally, geophysical specialist Mohammad S. Bannagi delivered a presentation titled “Joint Velocity Model Building and High-Resolution Depth Imaging of Full Wavefield 3-D VSP Data.”The Society for Petroleum Engineers (SPE) has selected three Saudi Aramco Upstream professionals as SPE International distinguished lecturers for the 2019-2020 lecture season. The SPE Distinguished Lecturer Program (DLP) is a platform to share industry leading trends through outstanding speakers, with more than 158,000 members in 143 countries, 203 sections, and 382 student chapters. The platform is one way SPE meets its principal objective of disseminating technical knowledge. It is also an opportunity for petroleum engineering professionals to enhance their professional competence. SPE DLP panels received more than 200 peer nominations, selecting 32 lecturers from around the world for the 2019-2020 season. The three selected from Aramco are Salam P. Salamy, senior petroleum engineering consultant and head of the Upstream Professional Development Center (UPDC); Khaled Arouri, geological consultant and focus area champion with the EXPEC Advanced Research Center (ARC); and Gabor G. Hursan, senior petrophysicist with the Reservoir Description and Simulation Department. Nasir K. Al Naimi, Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Petroleum Engineering and Development and the SPE-KSA chairman of the board, commented on the accomplishments: “We are proud to have our experts exploring solutions to real problems, leading the emerging concepts in oil and gas exploration and production, and benchmarking concepts against the industry’s best,” said Al Naimi. “To address our challenges and keep our preeminence in the upstream sector, our people must stay open to current thinking, views, and technologies; incorporate experience and learning from all industries; and consider human factors that unlock the full potential of the Kingdom’s resources to meet energy demands for decades to come.” In “A Performance-based Approach for Developing Upstream Professionals,” Salamy details Saudi Aramco Upstream leadership’s decade-long effort to establish a continuously engaged learning organization through professional development programs using contemporary performance-based curricula focused on job outcomes. 
Salamy is a two-time SPE distinguished lecturer. His first selection was in the 2004-2005 season for his lecture “Maximum Reservoir Contact (MRC) Wells: A New Generation of Wells for Developing Tight Reservoir Facies,” which detailed his efforts developing and implementing the MRC well concept at Shaybah. Arouri is the Geofluids and Basin Modeling Focus Area lead with EXPEC ARC. His area of focus is predictive geochemical solutions to increase hydrocarbon discovery and recovery. He was selected for his lecture, “Regional to Reservoir Geochemistry for Fluid Property Prediction,” which highlights challenges where geochemistry can play a key role for successful exploration and production by tracking fluid history, from the source to the reservoir. 
Using case studies, he detailed how the deconvolution of geochemical-geological controls over petroleum properties, the integration with basin modeling and reservoir engineering, and simulation can lower uncertainty and improve fluid prediction at regional and reservoir scales. Arouri also showed that key opportunities exist in using these methods to identify, assess, and better manage bypassed hydrocarbons. Hursan is the third Upstream professional the SPE selected as a distinguished lecturer. Hursan presented his lecture, “Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Technology (NMR): from Medical to the Oil Industry.” The lecture details how NMR technology, mostly known for its medical imaging applications, has been customized for in-place examination of rock formations using miniaturized borehole scanners operating inside oil and gas wells.  He presents data acquisition, processing, and diagnostics techniques with applications that reduce oil field operational costs, discovering previously undetectable productive zones and increasing recovered hydrocarbons from existing fields by using new reservoir navigation capabilities. Hursan is a lead technical expert in NMR well logging with Saudi Aramco.Saudi Aramco and SABIC have announced their selection of Yanbu, on the west coast of Saudi Arabia, as the site for the development of an integrated industrial complex to convert crude oil to chemicals (COTC). The announcement by Saudi Aramco and SABIC, the two largest industrial entities in the Kingdom, reflects the high importance both companies place on making the Kingdom a key hub for global chemicals production. The complex will utilize an economically viable, innovative configuration to convert crude oil to chemicals. This process is unprecedented in the industry. The COTC complex is expected to process 400,000 barrels per day of crude oil, which will produce approximately 9 million tons of chemicals and base oils annually and is expected to start operations in 2025. The complex is expected to create an estimated 30,000 direct and indirect jobs, further stimulating the Kingdom’s economic diversification efforts. By 2030 the COTC complex is expected to have 1.5% impact on the Kingdom’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), with investments being shared equally by both companies.  Consistent with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 economic transformation program, this project will support the creation of a world-leading downstream sector in Saudi Arabia, built on four key drivers: maximizing value from the Kingdom’s crude oil production via integration across the hydrocarbon chain; enabling the creation of conversion industries to produce semi-finished and finished goods to help diversify the economy; developing advanced technologies and innovation; and enabling sustainable development in alignment with the Kingdom’s National Transformation Program. The announcement strengthens the alliance between the two largest Saudi global entities and solidifies the Kingdom’s position as a global leader in chemicals by substantially increasing production and maximizing value across the entire hydrocarbons chain.   Earlier this year, Saudi Aramco and SABIC awarded the Project Management and Front End Engineering to Wood and KBR. The Partners are working on finalizing the selection of Leading Edge Technologies to complement their technologies.Saudi Aramco hosted the Gulf Region Organization for Women (GROW) forum under the banner of “Shaping the Future of Female Opportunities”, at the Plaza Conference Center today. GROW is a strategic platform seeking to promote policies supporting professional development for women in the Gulf. Celebrating the second year since its inception, the event marked the organization’s 10th meeting in partnership with 27 different and related entities. It promoted dialogue on important policy shifts underway in the Kingdom which are underlying moves towards improving female professional development.

Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser, opened the forum with a keynote address reaffirming Saudi Aramco’s unwavering support of female professional development and celebrating the company’s robust policies in this area.

In addition, H.E. Dr. Tamader Al-Rammah, Vice Minister of Labor and Social Development for Social Development, participated in the “Ministry’s Call to Action” session which preceded a speech given by Saudi Aramco Human Resources Executive Director, Nabil Al-Dabal’s entitled “Cultivating the Seeds of Collaboration”.

Underscoring the Kingdom’s already successful efforts to improve gender diversity and Saudi Aramco’s considerable work in this field, Nasser said:

“We have been investing in a wide range of programs for many years to enable women to compete, overcome challenges, and achieve their career aspirations.  At Saudi Aramco, we have increased female recruitment to more than 20% of all new hires and doubled the number of women working in our organization over the past 10 years. Meanwhile, in April, we appointed our first female Board member.”

While highlighting the industries and sectors where females can play a leading role, Nasser noted that Saudi Aramco is hiring more qualified females and developing talent to take on diverse roles and responsibilities across its business segments, adding that Saudi Aramco has entered into partnerships across the Kingdom with national training institutes which will improve the quality of professional and vocational training in the Kingdom, such as the first all-female Business Process Services Center in Riyadh, led by GROW.

Reflecting on the company’s commitment to women’s career advancement, Dabal said: “Saudi Aramco’s Women Development & Diversity Division is poised to play a prominent role in supporting female professional development in the Kingdom and the region.  With this in mind, the focus at this year’s forum is on creating practical, actionable strategies and forming partnerships across the Kingdom and in the region which serve to drive the development and empowerment of women in the Gulf.”Saudi Aramco, chaired the “Leadership Excellence for Women Awards and Symposium” (LEWAS), a leading industry event held at the Bahrain International Convention & Exhibition Center from October 23-25, promoting efforts to increase professional opportunities for women engagement and leadership in the Downstream sector of the energy industry. The Leadership Excellence for Women Awards and Symposium (LEWAS) operates by empowering, engaging and developing women professionals working in the sector, through focused workshops, leadership seminars and networking symposia, alongside awards that celebrate and recognize professional excellence. It is one of the few gender diversity initiatives in the GCC energy industry and this year’s Symposium was held concurrently with the Gulf Downstream Association (GDA) Conference and Exhibition event at the same venue.

Saudi Aramco continues to champion the professional development of its women employees through the implementation of company functions such as the Diversity Division which provides programs to help leaders develop their inclusive leadership capabilities, and to develop professional careers for women. The company is also home to a number of women in senior positions including Diversity and Inclusion Leader, Reem Al-Ghanim, who has been chairing LEWAS since 2017, and all of whom attended the event in Bahrain.

Saudi Aramco also established the prestigious Saudi Research Science Institute, a rigorous summer research program hosted by the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, (KAUST) which enjoys healthy levels of women participation. In addition, the company’s STEMania program delivers science, technology, engineering and math – STEM skills to young girls and the joint Saudi Aramco, GE and TATA Consultancy operation in Riyadh employs over 1000 women professionals.

As the event sponsor and chair, Saudi Aramco fielded a senior delegation comprising the women leaders in attendance, Senior Vice President of Downstream, Abdulaziz Judaimi, Vice President of Refining & NGL Fractionation, Suleman Al Bargan, and the company’s Executive Director of Human Resources, Nabil Dabal. 
Judaimi, opened proceedings with a keynote address on best practices in recruiting, developing and advancing women in Downstream. Welcoming delegates he identified three key corporate drivers which deliver healthy numbers of women professionals in a company; a strong belief in the role of women, strategic recruitment and effective professional support.

“I am pleased to say that Saudi Aramco has been investing in tailored outreach programs for some considerable time. These programs are helping women to compete before they even enter the workplace and specifically in our industry. Furthermore, it is due in large part to these programs that we have doubled the number of women working at Saudi Aramco over the past decade,” he said.

“When businesses enable women to thrive in environments that empower their strengths, this leads to increased performance and productivity levels which benefits individual companies and the wider industry.” 

Reflecting on Saudi Aramco’s commitment to women empowerment and the importance of the Symposium’s objectives, Dabal added: 

“Here at Saudi Aramco we apply an extremely disciplined approach to developing women empowerment and we have devised specific recruitment strategies to hire, train and retain supremely talented professional women. We have recently increased women recruitment to more than 20% of all new hires and there is every reason to think that this proportion will rise over the coming years. This solid result, coupled with our commitment to delivering tailored women professional development, demonstrates our commitment to women empowerment which is again reflected in our doubling of women hires over the last decade.”Saudi Aramco won the Best Exploration Technology Award at the recently held 2018 World Oil Awards, honoring groundbreaking strides in the oil and gas industry. The technology is SpiceRack, an innovative robotized solution for seabed seismic acquisition. The awards committee members also recognized the company with multiple finalist nominations. Synergistic Smart Water-based Polymer Flooding was a finalist for Best EOR Technology. CO2 Capture, Sequestration, and EOR Project, and Zero Liquid Discharge (ZLD) Water Treatment Solution for Produced Water Recycle and Oil Recovery each were finalists for Best HSE/Sustainable Development-Onshore. Designing Pillar Fracturing Using a Novel Emulsified Resin Technology was a finalist for the Best Production Chemicals Award.  Two of the company’s Houston-based research scientists were finalists for Innovative Thinker Awards — Susan Agar, head of the Geology team at the center, and Leiming Li, who is with Production Technology. Aramco’s ArcResin W, a finalist in the Best HSE/Sustainable Development-Offshore category, was created in the Houston R&D lab by the Drilling Technology team, led by Carl Themalitz with Elizabeth Contreras managing the product development. “Our strong showing at the 2018 World Oil Awards is a great reflection on the hard work, creativity and capability of our scientists working in Aramco labs worldwide,” said Ashraf Al-Tahini, director of Research & Development at Aramco Services.Saudi Aramco, a founding member of the Gulf Downstream Association (GDA), is chairing the GDA 2018 International Downstream Conference & Exhibition held at the Bahrain International Convention & Exhibition Center from October 23-25 under the patronage of His Royal Highness Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of Kingdom of Bahrain. The Conference is also being held concurrently with the Leadership Excellence for Women Awards and Symposium, an event which Saudi Aramco also sponsors.  As lead sponsor and host of the conference, Saudi Aramco plays a prominent role, with a senior delegation in attendance led by Vice President of Refining and NGL Fractionation, Suleman Al Bargan who, as overall conference chairman, also led a number of conference sessions. In an opening keynote address Bargan thanked His Royal Highness for his patronage and support and praised the GDA for its long term commitment to bringing together Downstream sector expertise.  Emphasizing the conference’s overarching themes of innovation, collaboration and technology, Bargan praised developments made in the Downstream sector saying “Collaboration is key to growing the Downstream sector and many organizations represented here have several domestic and international partners helping to create additional value. “This conference offers a unique moment in time to consider both the current state of the sector and its future trajectory. “We are incredibly proud of our continued association with the Gulf Downstream Association and our commitment at Saudi Aramco to build our Downstream capacity harnesses the vast reserves of the Kingdom and our equally deep pools of talent. Our Downstream strategy is being positioned to attract billions of dollars in investment and create thousands of direct and indirect jobs for Saudis. The measures are also fully aligned to the economic diversification aims of Vision 2030 and the company’s iktva supply chain strategy.” The conference welcomed around 2000 attendees, representing 300 companies from over 35 countries to tackle a range of industry topics in plenary and round table sessions, as well as presentations, to identify shared methods of harnessing industry innovation, collaboration and technological developments. The Gulf Downstream Association (GDA) was founded in 2016 by Saudi Aramco, Kuwait Petroleum International, Bahrain Petroleum Company, Kuwait National Petroleum Company, and Abu Dhabi National Oil Company and the conference provides a forum for refiners, regulators, licensors, investors, academics and Downstream professionals to share technical and industry insights and to collaborate in identifying  solutions. The GDA’s goal is to develop into an internationally recognized association promoting the sustainable growth of the Downstream sector.President and CEO Amin Nasser: “Saudi Aramco is proud to be a strategic partner in the Future Investment Initiative. We seek to be an active participant in the design of the economic future and standing of the Kingdom, not only domestically but also internationally.” Saudi Aramco participated as a strategic sponsor in the second annual Future Investment Initiative (FII) 2018, a key gathering of senior global and domestic business and policy leaders held in Riyadh under the patronage of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud. The Future Investment Initiative was an occasion for domestic and global influencers to engage in discussions on a wide range of topics related to the Kingdom’s economy, and the opportunities for business collaboration between Saudi and international business entities from several economic sectors. Commenting on the company’s participation at FII, President and CEO Amin Nasser said: “Saudi Aramco is proud to be a strategic partner in the Future Investment Initiative. We seek to be an active participant in the design of the economic future and standing of the Kingdom, not only domestically but also internationally. The Company is a leading supporter of Saudi Vision 2030 by helping to diversify the local economy, adding more value domestically, assisting in Kingdom industrialization, promoting job creation, helping in national capacity building, and promoting entrepreneurship.” “The Future Investment Initiative is an ideal and beneficial platform to attract international investments and to capitalize on new opportunities that are fast emerging with Saudi Vision 2030. Saudi Aramco is playing an integral role, alongside many national entities and stakeholders, in enabling new industrial and business partnerships in the Kingdom thanks to its position as a global energy powerhouse, and as reflected in our major investments and partnerships globally, not only in core oil and gas and downstream, but also in pursuing advanced technologies and energy-related value adding activities,” Nasser added. The Saudi Aramco President and CEO said the pace of reforms in the Kingdom has picked up tremendously and is multifaceted. The reforms have led to significant progress and positive change in a short period of time. The future of investment in the Kingdom is promising. According to Tadawul, the Saudi economy has greatly improved its economic and business rankings. For example the Rating agency Moody’s has maintained Saudi Arabia’s A1 positive rating with a stable outlook. It also increased its economic growth estimate for 2019 from 2.5% to 2.7%, which reflects a healthy economy on a pattern of steady growth. In addition to that, according to the World Economic Forum 2018 Global Competitiveness Report, the Saudi economy saw major improvements in its overall position and the ease of doing business. The report ranked the Kingdom 39th on its list of 140 economies, achieving its best progress since 2012.  The Saudi financial market governance index has moved up to 5th position in 2018 from 77th in 2017, showing the best performance among Arab countries, and the second best among the G20. At the FII, Saudi Aramco signed 15 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) and strategic and commercial collaborations valued at US$34billion with 15 international partner companies and entities from eight countries in 3 continents.  These collaborations reflect the range and ambition of Saudi Aramco’s interests, securing its status as the world’s preeminent energy and chemicals company. CEO Amin Nasser said: “These agreements support investments in strategic sectors which will further expand the company’s business portfolio while they contribute to the realization of Saudi Vision 2030.  The MOUs will contribute to such areas as refining, chemicals, conversion industries, localization and related new investment and training opportunities, and job creation. They will also help enable a vibrant energy services sector through the development of the King Salman Energy City, an anchor project which will increase the efficiency and reliability of the supply chain capabilities of the company and that of the Kingdom’s industrial base.” Saudi Aramco Chief Technology Officer Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter participated in a panel discussion on   “Energy”. Highlighting the company’s technology research and development efforts, Al-Khowaiter said that “The main focus of Saudi Aramco’s investment in R&D is to ensure that we are providing reliable access to affordable energy in a responsible way” adding that “technology has been and will continue to be absolutely critical to the company’s long term strategy.”  Al-Khowaiter said that Saudi Aramco is on track to becoming a global R&D powerhouse, creating groundbreaking energy and chemical technologies. “We are building leading technological capabilities. Last year, Saudi Aramco was granted 230 patents, which is four times as many as we were granted in 2013. We have doubled the number of scientists in our labs to 1,300 and we have intensified our R&D centers by opening nine new research centers around the globe.” Saudi Aramco technology and R&D innovations were on display at the FII Marketplace where visitors were able to learn from the company’s scientists and engineers about the latest technological innovations such as the advanced internal combustion engine efficiency program, the carbon capture utilization and storage initiatives, the gas leak detection and repair program, and the direct conversion of crude oil to chemicals program.At the highly impactful Future Investment Initiative (FII) forum in Riyadh today, Saudi Aramco signed 15 Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs)  and strategic and commercial collaborations valued at more than US$34 billion with 15 international partner companies and entities from eight countries in 3 continents. These collaborations reflect the range and ambition of Saudi Aramco’s business interests, reinforcing its position as the world’s preeminent energy and chemicals company. The MOUs reflect both Saudi Aramco’s and the Kingdom’s international partnership strategies and the determination to diversify the economy, enhance the domestic investment environment and boost employment opportunities.  The MOUs support Saudi Aramco’s forward-looking strategy across business units, including downstream, offshore, and engineering. It engages with companies representing eight countries including major businesses in France, China, the U.S., Japan, the UAE, the United Kingdom, South Korea and India. A number of these MOUs will enhance the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) program, Saudi Aramco’s flagships initiative to improve the domestic supply chain, its operations and its employment potential, through greater commercial engagement with Saudi businesses.  Iktva’s localization objective is to achieve 70% of locally supplied goods and services by 2021. In the area of job creation, Saudi Aramco has proactively pursued opportunities to pilot the high value job creation in the Kingdom, increasing opportunities for Saudi citizens over the next 10-15 years with anchor projects, including the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Service in Ras Al Khair which will generate in the region of 30,000 direct and 50,000 indirect jobs. The MOUs and commercial collaborations signed are: The Future Investment Initiative is an ideal platform to attract international investments and to capitalize on emerging new opportunities that are fast emerging with Vision 2030. Saudi Aramco is playing a pivotal role, alongside many national stakeholders, in enabling new industrial and business partnerships in the Kingdom thanks to its position as a global energy powerhouse, and as reflected in our major investments and partnerships globally, not only in core oil and gas and downstream, but also in pursuing advanced technologies and energy-related value adding activities. Saudi Arabia’s infrastructure, both physical and digital, has witnessed an extraordinary advancement. This is integral to today’s advanced industrial activities. It attracts investors and enhances the fundamental competitiveness of the Saudi economy.Saudi Aramco recently signed an MoU with Chinese Zhejiang provincial government during the 2nd International Petroleum and Natural Gas Enterprises Conference (IPEC), to acquire a share of Zhejiang Petrochemical’s new refinery project. 
Abdulaziz Al Judaimi, Sr. VP Downstream, said: "We are exploring opportunities for new refining and petrochemicals facilities, making further investments in China.  Saudi Aramco has recently signed a crude oil supply agreement with Zhejiang Petrochemical (Rongsheng). This increase in customer base is due to our continuous focus and attention to the Chinese market.  We are also a major JV partner in a growing portfolio of refining and petrochemical assets in China." 
Saudi Aramco plays an important part in China’s energy security. Since our first crude delivery to China, we have steadily increased our supply to Chinese oil companies in line with their requirements. Since 2006 to date, no one delivered more oil to China than Saudi Aramco. Helping China meet its critical energy needs shows Aramco’s commitment to key global markets. 
Saudi Aramco is working to achieve a better balance between its world-class upstream and its growing downstream. The company’s downstream strategy seeks to enhance the value of the hydrocarbon resource base by targeting increased horizontal and vertical integration across the hydrocarbon value chain. The successful execution of the downstream strategy would deliver a world leading, strategically integrated downstream network and a robust portfolio that is more resilient to market turbulence. 
Major refining, marketing and petrochemicals joint ventures are being created in such leading consuming nations as China and India, besides Malaysia, in addition to our existing assets in the U.S., South Korea, and Japan.The commissioning of Yanbu South Terminal (YST) marked the addition of 3 million barrels per day to the West Coast export capacity when the first VLCC was loaded on October 12, 2018. Yanbu South Terminal, which is located south of Yanbu City on the West Coast of Saudi Arabia, consists of a tank farm and offshore facilities to receive, store and load Arab Light (AL) and Arab Super Light (ASL) crude oil. The facility’s integration with the existing crude oil supply network adds 3 million barrels per day to Saudi Aramco’s export capacity through the West Coast, thereby reinforcing the reputation of Saudi Aramco as a reliable energy supplier to customers throughout the globe.

The Terminal’s program was designed and executed in accordance with the latest Saudi Aramco Engineering standards and specifications where operational, safety and environmental systems are state of the art.

“The successful startup of Yanbu South Terminal is another milestone in reinforcing Saudi Aramco position as the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals producer, operating in a safe, sustainable, reliable and environmentally-friendly manner,” said Abdullah M. Al-Mansour, Executive Head of Pipelines, Distribution, and Terminals.

“The successful commissioning and operation of Yanbu South Terminal is a testimony of the Company’s agility in responding to the business environment, and a demonstration of the fine caliber of individuals and teams who will lead the company into the future to support the country’s vision,” said Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Senior VP, Saudi Aramco Downstream.At the invitation of the Honorable Minister Dharmendra Pradhan and the Indian Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Saudi Aramco played a central role in the second India Energy Forum. Hosted by CERAWeek IHS Markit and held October 14-16, the annual event fosters national and international dialogue on opportunities, challenges and strategies to bring about a new energy future for India. Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Saudi Aramco chairman, H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih, took part in the Ministerial Dialogue on October 15. The same day, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi participated in a panel discussion titled: “Outlook for Refining and Petrochemicals.” Al-Judaimi noted that relations between the Kingdom and India are growing more strategic in nature, adding that, as the largest supplier of energy to India, Saudi Aramco has always had a long-term commitment to the country’s energy security. He added that Saudi Aramco is tapping into India’s world-leading growth, in large part by investing in its energy future as part of the company’s own downstream strategy. Al-Judaimi highlighted that the closer cooperation between Saudi Aramco and Indian energy entities is reflected in the partnership with RRPCL and ADNOC on the Ratnagiri mega-refinery and petrochemicals complex in Maharashta this year. He noted nearly $2 billion in material-service sourcing with Indian companies to date; and the opening of the Aramco Asia India office in 2017. Al-Judaimi underscored Saudi Aramco’s role as a catalyst for helping grow India’s oil and gas sector, especially chemicals. “Investing in India’s value chain from oil supply, marketing and refining to petrochemicals and lubricants is a key part of Saudi Aramco’s global downstream strategy,” said Al-Judaimi. “Chemicals, especially, can enhance India’s energy sector, adding long-term value to the country’s resources, providing quality products for India’s and Asia’s rapidly expanding middle classes, and positioning India for accelerated economic growth as a manufacturing hub – all of which align with Saudi Aramco’s own intent to expand our global business portfolio and downstream network.” Saudi Aramco’s engagement in the 2018 India Energy Forum explored topics such as the qualities that make India an attractive country for refining and petrochemicals investments, and the outlook for long-term petrochemicals demand.Saudi Aramco participated in the 2nd Supply Chain and Logistics Conference organized by the Ministry of Transport in Riyadh. Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Operations & Business Services Muhammad M. Saggaf delivered a keynote speech at the two-day conference, Saudi Arabia’s most comprehensive event of its kind, to underscore the importance of creating a logistics hub in the Kingdom. Addressing the conference audience in a keynote speech, Saggaf said: “The role played by the supply and logistics sector has gained increasing importance in both scope and value. The sector now represents about $4.3 trillion of the world’s economy. It impacts other industrial, commercial and service sectors and has adopted many new advanced technologies.” He added: “The Kingdom enjoys several competitive advantages, including its prime geographic location between three continents, a pro-investment fiscal regime, a stable currency exchange environment and competitively-priced and abundant energy feedstocks and minerals.” Saggaf praised the relevant government entities, such as the Ministry of Transport, along with the private sector, for their efforts in developing this sector even further, highlighting the following five areas for further development, namely: Adopting Artificial Intelligence and technical innovations, boosting trade procedures and operations, enhancing B2B, developing cluster applications in the transport sector, and enhancing Human Resources.” The aim of the supply chain conference is to leverage Saudi Arabia’s prime geographic location for optimal import and export traffic between Asia, Europe and North Africa closely aligns with both Vision 2030, the National Transformation Program 2020, and Saudi Aramco’s efforts to enhance economic diversification and build local content. The conference explored progress and opportunities in streamlining import and export processes, reforming government structures and regulations, and enhancing public-private partnerships. Saudi Aramco presented three technical papers covering logistics performance, supply chain and cyber security, and Saudi Aramco’s localization program IKTVA. Saudi Aramco and the Bahrain Petroleum Company (BAPCO) today announced the successful commissioning of AB-4 pipeline, a new phase of the strategic Saudi Aramco-Bahrain crude oil pipeline to meet the Kingdom of Bahrain’s growing energy demand. The new pipeline is capable of transporting up to 350 thousand barrels per day of crude oil. The thirty inches diameter and 112 kilometers long AB-4 pipeline originates from Saudi Aramco’s Abqaiq Plants and terminates at the BAPCO Refinery in Bahrain. The pipeline consists of three segments i.e. a 42-km onshore Saudi segment, 28-km Bahrain onshore segment, and a 42-km offshore segment. The new pipeline is equipped with the latest technologies to ensure safety, environmental protection and hydrocarbon supply reliability for the next decades. On the other hand, the existing 73 years old pipeline system which has been supplying BAPCO with crude oil since 1945 will retire safely. “The commissioning of AB-4 pipeline is another chapter in the special relationship between Saudi Aramco and BAPCO in several aspects including the energy sector that has flourished for more than 73 years and beyond” said Abdullah M. Mansour, Acting Executive Head of Pipelines Distribution & Terminals at Saudi Aramco.Good morning, Ladies and Gentlemen, and Bonsoir. Let me first thank Patrick Pouyanné and his team for travelling from France to be with us. With these Agreements, I hope that new generations from both our countries will come to appreciate the amazing work we are doing here with our world-class, long-term partner Total. In doing so, they will deepen the ties between us at the level that matters most – on the ground, shoulder-to-shoulder, getting the job done. Of course, until today, our SATORP refinery and petrochemical complex in Jubail has been the flagship of our “one plant; one team” ethos. What was just an idea back in 2005 is now truly one of the wonders of the petroleum and petrochemical industry. It has an excellent record on safety, quality, efficiency, and environmental protection. And it is a significant economic multiplier, for Jubail and the Eastern Province more broadly – for instance Saudization is over 70%. These same strategic goals are driving Project Amiral… but I believe the benefits will be even greater. Because Amiral accelerates our broader downstream strategy of becoming a global leader in refining and marketing, base lube oils, and chemicals. In fact, that strategy was further validated just last Friday in an IEA report which predicted that petrochemicals are “set to account for more than a third of the growth in oil demand to 2030, and nearly half to 2050.” 
So we are integrating our wholly-owned and joint venture refineries in order to increase the conversion of low-cost feedstock into higher value chemicals.
And where better to start than by integrating a world-class petrochemical complex with our world-class SATORP refinery next door?
Amiral also illustrates the even greater weight we place on economic multipliers thanks to Saudi Vision 2030. With an overall investment of over 9 billion dollars, we are confident that the Amiral portfolio will deliver a significant return.
It will produce 2.7 million metric tons of high value chemicals, including the first mixed feed cracker to be integrated with a refinery anywhere in the Gulf region.
In turn, that will introduce about 10 new chemical products to the Kingdom (and the technologies used to produce them), for use industries as diverse as medical, construction, and automotive; And we project that 8,000 local, direct and indirect jobs will be created, along with a specialized training center, as this incredible chemicals cluster develops.
In other words, today also shows our collective commitment to the Kingdom’s long-term economic future, and our willingness to back it with investments on megaprojects like SATORP and Amiral. And it shows the incredible win-win opportunities that are opening up across the Kingdom for astute global investors like Total who commit for the long-term.
Finally, there are several people I would like to thank. The approval of the Ministry of Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources, under the leadership of His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih, was essential.
We are also grateful to the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu’ for their support. But most of all I want to thank the teams from Total and Saudi Aramco. They have shown why the compatibility, trust, and values that our two great companies share is so important to our success. And they are truly the people who have made today possible. Ladies and Gentlemen, SATORP may have set the bar high. But Project Amiral is raising it to new heights. It is a quantum leap for Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy.
And it is no less a leap for our support of Vision 2030, and our incredible partnership with Total. Thank you.Amin H. Nasser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco and Patrick Pouyanné, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Total, signed today in Dhahran the joint development agreement for the front-end engineering and design (FEED) of a giant petrochemical complex in Jubail, on Saudi Arabia’s eastern coast. Announced in April 2018, the world-class complex will be located next to the SATORP state of the art refinery, operated by Saudi Aramco (62.5%) and Total (37.5%), in order to fully exploit operational synergies. It will comprise a mixed-feed cracker (50% ethane and refinery off-gases) – the first in the Arabian Gulf region to be integrated with a refinery – with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year of ethylene and related high-added-value petrochemical units. The project represents an investment of approximately $5 billion dollars and is scheduled to start-up in the 2024. In a move to further develop downstream industries in the Kingdom, the project will also provide feedstock for other petrochemical and specialty chemical plants located in the Jubail industrial area and beyond, representing an additional $4 billion investment by third party investors, benefitting the Saudi economy. The overall complex will represent an investment of approximately $9 billion and is expected to create 8,000 local direct and indirect jobs. Saudi Aramco CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “The petrochemicals sector has been undergoing significant growth globally and is one of the future growth engines. Thus, SATORP’s second-phase expansion represents a significant value addition in Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy to maximize the full value of our vast resources portfolio and position the Kingdom as a chemicals manufacturing and exports hub, supporting economic growth and diversification as part of Vision 2030.” Nasser added: “Today’s signing with our partner Total will deliver on multiple levels, from high-value fuels and petrochemical products never manufactured in the Kingdom before, destined for consumers on three continents to meaningful job creation for Saudi men and women and local content development. Our partnership with Total has evolved from a buyer-seller relationship of crude oil to one that has progressed to a strong long term partnership through SATORP and today we’re pleased to commemorate another major milestone as part of the SATORP journey.” Patrick Pouyanné, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Total said: “We are delighted to write a new page of our joint history by launching a new giant project, building on the successful development of SATORP, our biggest and most efficient refinery in the world. This world-class complex also fits with our strategy to expand in petrochemicals by maximizing the synergies within our major platforms, leveraging low-cost feedstocks and taking advantage of the fast growing Asian polymer market.” Following the signature of a memorandum of understanding (MoU) in April 2018, Saudi Aramco and Total have also reaffirmed today their commitment towards the joint development of fuel retail operation in Saudi Arabia.In one of the most comprehensive oil field carbon intensity (CI) studies ever published, a global team led by Stanford University has calculated the CI of the world’s active oil fields — with significant results for Saudi Arabia. CI is a measure of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with producing crude oil, from the well to the refinery gate. The scientists analyzed the CI of 8,966 of the world’s active oil fields across 90 countries, representing 98% of the world’s 2015 global crude oil and condensate production.The prestigious journal Science published the research team’s peer-reviewed paper, “Global carbon intensity of crude oil production,” in its August 31 edition. The scientists discovered that among the countries producing more than 0.1% of global oil production, Saudi Arabia ranks the lowest in CI of any major producer to extract, process, and transport its crude oil to the refinery gate. With a CI measurement of 4.6 grams of carbon dioxide (CO2) equivalent per each megajoule, which is approximately 27 kg of CO2 equivalent per barrel of crude oil, Saudi Arabian oil is second only to the lowest in the world, Denmark, which produces almost 150,000 barrels of oil per day. “Saudi Arabia is the largest global oil producer, but has a small number of extremely large and productive reservoirs,” the report states. “The country has low per-barrel gas flaring rates and low water production — resulting in less mass lifted per unit of oil produced and less energy used for fluid separation, handling, treatment, and reinjection — thereby contributing to low CI. Speaking before the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) annual stakeholder meeting in New York last week, Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser said the study confirmed the significant greenhouse gas mitigation potential of Saudi crude oil. At the New York meeting, the CEOs of the OGCI’s 10 existing member companies and three new members — ExxonMobil, Chevron, and Occidental — discussed the industry’s approaches to decrease greenhouse gas emissions with key stakeholders. The OGCI also unveiled plans to reduce its collective, average methane intensity of core upstream oil and gas operations to below 0.25% by 2025, with a goal of reaching 0.2% corresponding to a reduction by one-third. With oil demand remaining significant for the coming decades, prioritizing the use of low CI oils is a crucial global consideration for climate change. Oil demand will also be driven by increased demand for chemicals, which is expected to double over the next 25 years. In the meantime, oil needs to be sourced in the most carbon-responsible manner, and the paper recommends investing in technology as one way to reduce CI. The low CI of Saudi Arabian crude oil is a result of multiple factors, including the company’s continuous implementation of best-in-class reservoir management practices, flare minimization, energy efficiency, greenhouse gas emissions management, and methane leak detection and repair (LDAR). The LDAR program has been implemented Kingdomwide across all company operations and is now being optimized by assessing and introducing new cost-effective methane monitoring technologies such as thermal cameras, laser detection, and quantification sensors. A world leader in minimizing routine flaring — with a flaring intensity level of less than 1% — Saudi Aramco is also using technologies such as mobility geosteering, multilateral wells with smart completions, and peripheral water flooding, which have led to low water production per barrel and less energy consumption, resulting in lower carbon emissions. The Science journal study analyzed vast amounts of publicly available data for both onshore and offshore wells, as well as conventional and unconventional resources. The team calculated the CI of crude oil well-to-refinery gate across exploration, drilling, development, production, extraction, surface processing, and transport to the refinery inlet. With data from more than 800 references, the study covers 98% of global oil and condensate production in 2015. It is the first time such an analysis was done at this very resolved oil field-by-field level. Scientists from the Aramco Research Center in Detroit coauthored the paper, along with scientists from 14 global academic and policy institutions. The Aramco team included Hassan El-Houjeiri, Alhassan Badahdah, Jean-Christophe Monfort, and Steve Przesmitzki. Previously, a better understanding of crude oil greenhouse gas emissions was generally hindered by a lack of a single method for measuring the CI of oils. The team used the Oil Production Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimator (OPGEE) which was originally developed by Stanford University. The OPGEE development was instrumental for the ever-increasing use of data-driven CI analysis by regulators and private investors. “The development of the OPGEE model solved a big part of the puzzle by providing a peer-reviewed, open source tool for measuring the carbon intensity of oils,” said El-Houjeiri. Selectively and innovatively managing the different properties of the world’s crude oils has significant potential to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions. Producing, transporting, and refining crude oil into fuels such as gasoline and diesel account for up to 40% of transport fuels emissions, depending on the field. The study identified two strong factors influencing CI: flaring, and water cut. The paper recommends that new and existing oil fields could lower CI by a number of means, including incorporating CO2 capture, eliminating routine flaring and capturing fugitive methane emissions. Giving a quantitative value to the advantage Saudi Arabia has in a carbon constrained world, the paper shows how much carbon could be saved by simply switching crude supplies. It shows that at least 18 metric gigatons of CO2 equivalent could be saved over the century by reducing oil sector emissions through selection of low CI crude resources, as well as improved gas management practices. “The findings presented in the paper unequivocally confirm Saudi Aramco’s leading position in the oil industry in terms of carbon intensity,” commented Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, chief technology officer of Saudi Aramco. “We are committed to continuing our efforts to maintain this leadership.”  Download map (PDF, 243KB)Aramco Asia-Japan (AAJ) recently signed an agreement with The National Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation to contribute to the efforts of disseminating knowledge while enhancing the public interest and understanding of science and technology among local residents. Locally known as Miraikan, which broadly means “future museum” in Japanese, it is the latest partner of AAJ and Saudi Aramco’s corporate social responsibility endeavor for 2018 under the pillar of promoting a knowledge society. Located in the metropolitan area of Tokyo, the museum attracts more than one million visitors from all over the world every year. The experience-based exhibitions not only showcase cutting-edge science and technology, but also help the audiences understand how science and technology can influence the future. At the signing ceremony, Omar M. Al Amudi, AAJ representative director, said he looked forward to the future collaboration. “Saudi Aramco has recently inaugurated the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture (Ithra). The initiative is designed to promote cross-cultural development through its multipurpose facilities, which include an auditorium, a modern library, an exhibition hall and a museum, among others. This is, of course, completely aligned with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030, especially in the areas of culture and entertainment. I hope this agreement will usher a new chapter of cooperation and collaboration between AAJ, Ithra, and Miraikan, since they have a wide range of commonalities. “We are truly privileged to establish this connection,” said Mamoru Mohri, chief executive director of Miraikan. “It is our strong belief that science and technology are both integral and a vital part of culture. By accumulating and combining the wisdom from various cultures, we can create a better future. Such activities at both platforms can generate synergy.” The unique setup of Miraikan is its design to prompt visitors to stop, ponder, and discuss the future of science and technology. Miraikan’s first-of-its-kind, globe-like display “Geo-Cosmos” that is made with organic electroluminescent panels displaying virtual real-time events of global weather patterns, ocean temperatures, as well as other geographic, scientific, and socioeconomic topics. It was created based on the wishes of Mohri, who was the first Japanese astronaut to fly on a NASA space shuttle mission twice — first in 1992, and then again, in 2000. Mohri wanted to share with people the sight of the beautiful Earth he had seen from space as an astronaut.' Visitors can also meet different types of active humanoid robots at Miraikan. They prompt and inspire visitors to imagine a future society with robots. The museum also has the presence of science communicators, who provide easy-to-understand explanations of exhibits to visitors leveraging their specialized knowledge and communication skills to connect science with society. The keyword of Miraikan’s activities is Tsunagari — a Japanese word for linkage, relation, and connection. It recognizes the relationships between 10 billion people and the 4.6-billion-year-old Earth, valuing the collaboration with national and international organizations to implement activities for the future. AAJ looks forward to the Tsunagari with Miraikan.Saudi Aramco made a strong showing at the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition in Dallas, as Sami A. Alnuaim was named president of the international organization for 2019, four Aramco researchers received distinguished awards, and company staff contributed to about 20 scientific papers and panels. Alnuaim, who currently serves as manager of the Petroleum Engineering Application Services Department at Saudi Aramco, delivered a keynote address in which he spoke about the importance to the energy industry of reaching new talented students, harnessing technological change, and speaking proudly about the industry’s current outstanding global sustainability performance. Alnuaim’s election as president of the SPE marks only the second time a Saudi Aramco petroleum engineer has been named to lead the reputable organization since it was officially formed in 1957 from predecessor organizations, including the American Institute of Mining & Metallurgical and Petroleum, which dates back to 1871. Alnuaim said he was honored to be handed the ceremonial SPE gavel just after the celebration of the 88th Saudi National Day. The international board of directors took a few minutes at the beginning of its official meeting on September 23 to recognize the national event and sent greetings wishing prosperity to the Kingdom, Alnuaim said. “It is customary for each SPE president to choose a theme to focus on during their term, and I have chosen one that is important to all of us — energy sustainability,” he said at the Kay Bailey Hutchison Convention Center during the organization’s flagship annual event held September 24–26 and attended by more than 8,000 attendees. “I want to show the world that we are a major factor in the solution to both environmental and social development challenges facing our industry today,” he said. Doing so will help correct several misconceptions about our industry, and thereby attract new talented engineers to the oil and gas sector, he added. The industry has made continuous progress reducing its carbon footprint and more innovations are on the horizon as the oil and gas industry works to continue addressing the world’s energy needs, Alnuaim said. He noted that the entry in September of three new major U.S. companies into the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, of which Saudi Aramco is a founding member, is a sign of progress. Alnuaim said that he plans to build bridges between geoscience schools around the world to share top academic programs and curricula and strengthen their programs by reflecting recent advances in technology and engagement with communities. This, he said, will help produce “citizen engineers” who innovate, advance the industry, and most importantly, care about the community. Aramco has been a longtime supporter of SPE, which has about 150,000 members worldwide, and the conference allowed the company to showcase its leadership position in the upstream world, while also telling stakeholders about the diversification of its business portfolio — especially in regard to research and development globally and in the U.S.Saudi Aramco recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with China University of Petroleum in Beijing (CUPB) to enhance their partnership and closer collaboration. The MoU is intended to explore added value opportunities for joint research in the field of research and technology, education, social outreach, and community service betterment for mutual benefit. The MoU marks the elevation of the Aramco CUPB cooperation from an informal partnership to a strategic level: “The signing of the MoU will open new areas of collaboration. We are glad to build stronger ties with China’s foremost university specializing in the petroleum studies and I appreciate the contribution the university has made in the areas of research and technology. We have invested heavily in upstream R&D over the past years to make our operations sustainable and reliable,” Al Qahtani said in a roundtable briefing with faculties from the university. “The reason that we came to Beijing for the establishment of a R&D center is that we could tap into China’s huge resources of faculty, students and researchers. We have rich experience in working with top-level universities and research institutes globally, and I hope to make this one among our many successes,” Al Qahtani added. Through the MoU, the two sides will establish a collaboration framework that would facilitate academic exchanges, bring in novel technologies to handle upstream challenges, and encourage community engagement to maximize the benefit in a professional manner. “The agreement signed today solidifies what we have achieved before and will open a new chapter of collaboration to carry out new researches and studies,” said CUPB president Zhang Laibin. “I would comfortably say that we are among the top universities in China focusing on a wide range of all oil and gas related studies. One of our global strategy’s three top priorities is to contribute to the advancement of oil and gas industry and reduce our carbon footprint through collaboration with Saudi Aramco.” Educational development underpins the success of any undertaking, whether it be building a profitable company, an advanced industrial sector, or a strong and prosperous society. Aramco Asia is pleased to cooperate with CUPB to leverage its educational resources not only to benefit the company, but to also help China and Saudi Arabia promote sustainable development of each other’s oil sector.Saudi Aramco’s drive for continuous improvement and excellence was recognized last week as our teams and individuals took home a total of five awards from the 2018 Oil and Gas Awards Middle East in Dubai. The event represents one of the most prestigious awards organizations in the industry, highlighting the accomplishments and game-changing ideas of the top players in the GCC region. Leading the way this year, the Yanbu’ NGL Fractionation (YNGLF) Department was awarded the Operational Excellence (OE) Strategy of the Year award. With the intent to govern its performance and processes, YNGLF adopts a set of key principles that have instilled the OE culture among its employees, toward meeting stakeholders’ expectations, and contributing to the achievement of long-term sustainable success. “Operational Excellence is central to achieving the company’s strategic objectives, and is delivering tangible results at YNGLF,” said Faisal A. Al-Subhi, YNGLF manager. “We are entering an era where full implementation of OE is the path forward to keep us ahead of the curve. “As our business responds to changing market needs, YNGLF is fully committed to OE via the focus on partnerships, strengthening safety performance, enhancing profitability and reliability, as well as adopting new innovative ideas and technologies while investing in our human resources.” Taking the HSE (Health, Safety, and Environment) Initiative of the Year award, Saudi Aramco’s EXPEC Advance Research Center (ARC) impressed judges with both the environmental benefits and the cost efficiency of its carbon capture, utilization and sequestration through the Carbon Dioxide Enhanced Oil Recovery (CO2 EOR) Pilot Project. The mitigation of CO2, a greenhouse gas, is at the center of this pilot project. By capturing and injecting about 2,000 tons of CO2 every day into subterranean formations, Saudi Aramco is having a positive impact on the environment — the equivalent of removing 170,000 vehicles from the road per year. It is an example of a “win-win” project: A win for the environment by storing CO2 and a win for additional oil recovery if needed in the future. The project is a long-term resource planning strategy and an approach to protect the environment. For Technical Innovation of the Year, Saudi Aramco’s EXPEC ARC shared the award for its Waterflood Monitoring with Surface-to-Borehole Electromagnetics with the company’s strategic partner, Schlumberger. Waterflood monitoring helps the company overcome one of the major challenges in tracking the movements of fluids in the subsurface. Through its joint project with Schlumberger, EXPEC ARC scientists applied for the first time a new surface-to-borehole electromagnetic (EM) technology for waterfront monitoring around wells. The implementation of touchless capacitive EM sensors permanently installed in the reservoir provides the configuration for continuous reservoir monitoring. The development of the technology led to one granted patent and two more patent filings from Saudi Aramco. Saudi Aramco also received the Training Initiative/Program of the Year award for its “Geoscience Train” Program. The 18-month program focuses on building the strengths of young employees in geology and geophysics through a mix of educational courses and field applications. It selects mentors from different specialties and backgrounds to align ideas with expertise and close the scientific gap between the new and seasoned employees. This enables the new generation of geologists and geophysicists to deliver new and innovative solutions to address challenges facing Exploration. Rounding out the event, Mohammed A. Al-Ghazal, an operations supervisor with the ‘Uthmaniyah Gas Plant, received the Young Oil and Gas Professional of the Year. Al-Ghazal earned the award for his work in secured digital transformation, which includes developing novel machine learning models to streamline error prone, human intensive and repetitive tasks in the oil and gas industry. Machine learning not only improves reliability; it also saves time and helps in improving safety performance and environmental stewardship by sending alert messages to staff for proactive mitigation and control. Pengerang Refining and Petrochemical (PRefChem) on Monday achieved a significant milestone in the construction of its refinery at the Pengerang Integrated Complex (PIC) with the arrival of the first crude oil cargo at Pengerang Deepwater Terminal 2 (PDT2), marking its transition into commissioning phase for startup. With a refining capacity of 300,000 barrels of crude oil per day, the refinery — upon completion — will produce a range of refined petroleum products (including gasoline and diesel) that meet Euro 5 fuel specifications. Additionally, the refinery will provide feedstock for the integrated petrochemicals complex within the PIC, which has the capacity to produce 3.3 million tonnes per annum. “The arrival of the cargo signifies our readiness to move forward to startup and commercial operations,” said PRefChem CEO Colin Wong Hee Huing. “We are proud to have overcome the challenges in building this mega-structure and remain on track to meet our target for crude-in. We will begin rigorous commissioning activities leading up to the startup in the first quarter of 2019.” The cargo of 2 million barrels of crude supplied by Petroliam Nasional Berhad (Petronas) and Saudi Aramco will be used for commissioning and testing activities, scheduled to commence in October. Currently, the construction of the refinery is nearing completion. The momentous occasion was graced by Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Downstream; Datuk Md Arif Mahmood, chairman of PRefChem, along with members of the PRefChem board of directors and representatives from Petronas and Saudi Aramco.The Saudi Arabian Drilling Academy (SADA) today held its first graduation for a cohort of 132 students representing 34 drilling and services companies, in response to the oil and gas industry’s rising need for thousands of skilled exploration, drilling and workover talent, and in alignment with Saudi Vision 2030 workforce development aims. The graduation ceremony was attended by His Excellency Dr. Ahmed Al-Fahaid, Governor of the Technical and Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC), Amin Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco, Mohammed Al-Qahtani, Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President for Upstream, Dawood Al-Dawood, Saudi Aramco’s Vice President for Northern Area Oil Operations and Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Saudi Arabian Drilling Academy (SADA). “The concept behind SADA is unprecedented, where companies that operate in a competitive market agree to cooperate in a win-win approach and join forces for the good of the industry. What is happening here is a true sense of responsibility and solidarity among industry players. It is a start, and will inspire others.” Amin Nasser said. “I would like to congratulate the cohort and wish them a successful career, and thank all of the stakeholders who made such collaboration possible.” Nasser added. “We are proud of the fruitful relationship with the Technical and Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC) and the successful collaboration of the 34 companies funding the academy.” Said Al-Qahtani. “The academy will play a great role in closing the talent gap and equipping Saudi students with the skills and capabilities required by drilling industry, and will complement the efforts to increase the share of local content in the energy-related products and services, as we will spend more than half a trillion Saudi Riyals on drilling activities over the next decade, in compliance with the goals and objectives of the ambitious Saudi Vision 2030.” he added. “I would like to thank all of SADA stakeholders for their participation and dedication to this remarkable establishment and the 34 companies that agreed to pool their resources under one roof in a unique undertaking.” Said Al-Dawood. “The academy presents a unique model where different companies join efforts collectively to create a unified and centralized training and development facility that serves and meets the requirement of the market as a whole. The academy fosters Saudization in the drilling industry and will create a localized pool of talents complemented by the creation of new job opportunities for Saudis, as outlined by Saudi Vision 2030. The academy is part of the corporate social responsibility efforts of the drilling companies in Saudi Arabia.” Al-Dawood added. The academy is funded by 34 private drilling companies and provided with logistical support by Saudi Aramco and the Technical Vocational Training Center in Abqaiq. Under the current scope of training that began in September 2016, SADA’s comprehensive program ensures the job-readiness of workers ranging from rigman and junior services operator to skilled engineers, riggers and heavy equipment operators. The initiative was proposed in 2014 to achieve the dual goal of generating knowledge-economy jobs that meet Saudi Aramco’s needs, and to create a more efficient training model that reduces costs and increases stakeholder competitiveness. It is estimated that nearly 90,000 Saudis must be trained over the next 20 years to support the industry’s growth plans. The Academy’s training program covers 20 months, beginning with onboarding followed by a 14-week field orientation; a 50-week academic segment covering different levels of English, math and occupational safety and health concepts; drilling and well site operation fundaments for four weeks; and practical or general and specific experience for 14 weeks.Saudi Aramco and Schneider Electric Saudi Arabia have signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) regarding the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Ahmad A. Al Ghamdi, manager of Saudi Aramco’s Process and Control Systems Department, signed the agreement under the Digital Transformation Program led by Technical Services senior vice president Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi. Najib A. Al-Naim, president of Schneider Electric Saudi Arabia, signed on behalf of Schneider Electric. The MoU covers a wide area of topics thought to be disruptive to many industries, including oil and gas. The topics include Augmented and Virtual Reality, the Industrial Internet of Things, Big Data, Advance Analytics and 3-D Asset Virtualization. It will also look into power management systems and integrated manufacturing operations management. Furthermore, the MoU will set goals to increase research outcomes in digital solutions, as well as enhance Schneider Electric’s local presence — especially in solution development, manufacturing, and support. This will be reflected with more opportunities in talent development and training in areas related to the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Al Ghamdi expressed his eagerness to explore many aspects of the MoU, emphasizing that there is always room for innovation and how it is important in our rapidly changing digital age. This MoU is one of many that has been signed with companies and industry leaders to support our company’s 2020 Transformation Program and the Kingdom’s Vision 2030.  Speaking on the opening day of the Offshore Northern Seas (ONS) 2018 conference, Nasir K. Al-Naimi, vice president of Petroleum Engineering and Development with Saudi Aramco, underlined that the energy industry’s short-term challenges should not come at the expense of long-term goals. “There is no question, the global energy market is in a state of transition, and as energy transitions have proven throughout history, this will be a long process — extending over generations, with periods of turbulence,” said Al-Naimi. “We need to pay mind to the waves, certainly, but we must also keep our eyes firmly fixed on the horizon in order to pursue our true course. I often think of this analogy when having a discussion about a dynamic energy market.” At the “Energy Markets Explained” session, Al-Naimi stressed that, as a company, Saudi Aramco believes oil demand will remain positive for the foreseeable future.

“Oil will be critical in the urbanization of non-OECD regions as a growing middle class demands more food, wearables, and transport. The urban population is expected to grow by around 2.5 billion by mid-century, with urbanized growth in Asia and Africa being especially intense.”

In addition, oil demand will also be driven by an increase in chemicals, noted Al-Naimi, with the demand for petrochemicals expected to double over the next 25 years. There is a broad consensus in the industry that crude oil as a feedstock will experience the fastest growth compared to other oil demand sectors.

Al-Naimi was joined in a panel discussion by Amrita Sen, chief oil analyst at Energy Aspects, and Eirik Wærness, senior vice president and chief economist at Norwegian energy multinational Equinor (formerly known as Statoil). Saudi Aramco delivered a number of presentations discussing not only its latest upstream technology, but also the progress of major projects such as the development of the King Salman Energy Park and the company’s efforts toward marine management and biodiversity.

Eleven of Saudi Aramco's portfolio companies, through venture capital arm Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures (SAEV), supported the company's presence at the ONS.  Several of these leading technology companies — Target Intervention, Sekal, Cannseal and Geomec — received Al-Naimi, who led a Saudi Aramco contingent that included Hans Middelthon, managing director of SAEV’s activities in Europe.

“The presence of senior Aramco management at ONS raises the profile of SAEV and our portfolio companies in the region, but also provides an opportunity for Saudi Aramco delegates to see first-hand the latest technology trends emancipating from the North Sea basin,” said Middelthon.

“Of particular focus at ONS this year was the digitization of the oil and gas industry, which included a dedicated SAEV workshop, with participation from European exploration and production players, and unique technology providers,” Middelthon added, highlighting the huge potential digitization offers Saudi Aramco.

Held every two years across four days, ONS remains one of the busiest and multifaceted events on the energy calendar, with visitors in excess of 68,000 and speakers numbering over 600 for 2018. Founded as a result of oil discoveries made in the North Sea, ONS has come to provide a key meeting place for surrounding companies and has, over time, facilitated the emergence of a major oil and gas hub.Saudi Aramco has awarded today a contract to China Harbour Engineering Arabia for the construction of two (2) drilling islands under the company’s Berri Increment Program (BIP). The objective of the BIP is to produce an additional 250,000 barrels per day of Arabian Light crude oil from the Berri Oil Field to reach 500,000 barrels per day to maintain Saudi Aramco’s maximum sustained capacity by early 2023. A signing ceremony to mark the contract award was held in Dhahran today. Signing on behalf of Saudi Aramco was its Vice President of Project Management, Fahad Al-Helal while China Harbour Engineering was represented by Wu Yuansheng, General Manager of China Harbour Engineering Arabia. The Program includes the installation of a new Gas Oil Separation Plant (GOSP) in Abu Ali Island and additional gas processing facilities at the Khursaniyah Gas Plant (KGP) to process 40,000 barrels per day of hydrocarbon condensate associated with the Berri Crude Increment. Related pipelines, water injection facilities, onshore drilling sites, drilling islands and offshore facilities are also included. Under the contract awarded to China Harbour Engineering, two (2) drilling islands shall be constructed near shore at the north and south sides of the King Fahad Industrial Port (KFIP) causeway in Jubail, to support the Berri field production capacity islands. The two drill sites referred to as Site A and Site B will have an approximate overall area of 616,553 square meters and 263,855 square meters respectively.Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President for Upstream and Chairman of the Dhahran Techno Valley Company (DTVC) Advisory Committee, attended the annual Dhahran Techno Valley (DTV) event today, where he delivered a keynote speech titled: “Taking Dhahran Techno Valley to the Next Level.” Dhahran Techno Valley is an integrated ecosystem of leading national and international research and development centers that aim to drive Saudi Arabia’s transition to a knowledge-based economy through:

Supporting technology transfer for developing localized and custom-fit solutions to meet the energy industry's current and future needs, in the Kingdom, regionally and globally.
Creating new knowledge-based and innovation-driven businesses undertaking strategic and applied research leading to effective technology commercialization.
Accelerating the growth of an entrepreneurship base in the Kingdom, and more importantly strengthening the talent technical bench of Saudi young professionals through creating quality knowledge based jobs. Saudi Aramco is a strategic partner and champion of DTV since its inception and has been working closely, strategically and on various multidimensional levels with King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), which is the host of this thriving ecosystem, and all the national and international partners operating in DTV. Their objective is to establish effective alignment and synergies which contribute effectively and tangibly in the achievement of the vision and strategic objectives of DTV through collaborative research, technology development and rapid commercialization of technologies to stimulate innovation, create jobs, and drive growth in new technology based innovative sectors.

The event was attended by members of Saudi Aramco executive management, KFUPM officials, and numerous executives and professionals from national and global companies.

“We are proud of the strategic relationship among all the companies operating in the Dhahran Techno Valley Science Park, where Saudi Aramco plays a significant role in strengthening relationships that contribute to the development and diversification of the Saudi economy in full alignment with Saudi Vision 2030,” Sr. VP Al-Qahtani said. “Dhahran Techno Valley enhances our local research capabilities while addressing Saudi Aramco’s long-term technology needs, promoting better access to qualified human capital, efficient infrastructure and services for cutting-edge R&D, in addition to fostering an innovation culture in the Kingdom.”

In his speech, Dr. Sahel N. Abduljauwad, acting rector of KFUPM and chairman of the Board of Directors of the Dhahran Techno Valley Company, expressed satisfaction in witnessing the impactful growth of partnerships in the DTV Ecosystem along with increased collaboration in addressing R&D subjects with highly technical and economic impacts.

Dr. Abduljauwad pledged the university’s continuous support of the DTV’s mission toward result-driven cooperation with both industry and academia.

The event concluded with the recognition of Halliburton for “Best Performance” and Baker Hughes, a GE Company, as “Most Improved Company” among the 10 operating companies in the 2017 DTV Assessment.

In 2010, DTV Company was created by a Royal Charter to operate as a wholly owned subsidiary under KFUPM, to oversee the operations of Dhahran Techno Valley ecosystem. There are currently 16 Saudi and multinational companies operating within the DTV Science Park.
Aramco Asia has provided much-needed support to the China Mangrove Conservation Network (CMCN) after entering into an agreement in April this year, within the framework of Saudi Aramco’s 2018 donation program. The green initiative’s objectives are to facilitate and support the conservation and protection of mangrove swamps on Haimen Island, in Southeast China’s Fujian Province. This program is one of many social corporate responsibility initiatives that Aramco Asia is carrying out to implement Saudi Aramco’s out-of-Kingdom donation strategy that promotes the corporate social responsibility pillars of knowledge society and environment in areas of operations. Under the agreement, Aramco Asia took the specific area of the island as an adopted conservation land to conduct mangrove planting and post-planting management work such as coastline cleanup and invasive species removal. “We are happy to support such tasks that would contribute to the improvement of mangrove conservation and the island’s ecosystem in general,” said Fahad Al Othman, Aramco Asia acting president. “We endorse this initiative and feel obliged to conserve our planet to provide a certain level of sustainability, and at the same time, prosperity for all people. It is an eco-friendly investment that will bring about a good return to our livelihood.” At a recent ceremony marking the success of the project, CMCN general director Liu Yi said he appreciated the support Aramco Asia has offered, and pointed out how important mangroves are for the community, biodiversity, and ecosystem. “It (mangrove) plays an extremely important role in protecting the banks, coping with climate change, purifying water, and providing abundant seafood,” said Liu. “It is wonderful that Aramco Asia participates in coastal wetland conservation that promotes the protection of mangrove forests with practical actions and practices the concept that clean water and green mountains are golden mountains.” Also at the ceremony, an interim report was released on the work that has been done by both sides since the partnership was formed months ago. Through working cooperatively with CMCN — a nongovernmental organization jointly set up by the Haishan village committee and the Fugong Forestry Bureau — Aramco Asia has advocated the essence of sustainability of biodiversity restoration while supporting wetland management throughout the project’s day-to-day operations. Following the ceremony, participants were invited on a field trip to the CMCN and Aramco Asia Eco-Restoration Base, where they joined the volunteers — mainly from Xiamen Air — for mangrove planting. Apart from on-site planting, organizers also carried out a raft of scientific and promotional activities to restore coastal wetlands, clean out invasive species and marine litter, and build better habitats for birds and local wildlife. Liu, an expert in mangrove macrobenthic animals, said local residents and volunteers have planted more than 10,000 mangrove trees on the island, reaching nearly half of the total target of 22,000 — set when the project began in April. They were also involved in the daily management of the planting site, carrying out duties such as patrolling, fence repair, and garbage disposal. There will be another three rounds of regular monitoring until the end of the project in February 2019.Saudi Aramco Upstream Technology Company (SAUTC), a Saudi Aramco company, has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Russia’s Lomonosov Moscow State University (MSU) to promote cooperation in the area of joint research, primarily to explore oil and gas industry innovation with specific focus on upstream technology. Under the MOU, Saudi Aramco and MSU will conduct programs and projects to include developing new advanced materials applied in the oil and gas industry as well as methods and techniques for reservoir and oilfield data acquisition, analysis and computational modeling.

The collaboration will also entail both parties organizing bilateral joint laboratories, symposia, workshops and conferences.

“Saudi Aramco welcomes this collaboration with Moscow State University, an institution that is distinguished both by its venerable history and its academic prestige, notably in advanced upstream disciplines,” said Mohammed Y. Al-Qahtani, Saudi Aramco’s senior vice president of Upstream.

“In this era of accelerating technology and innovation, strategic collaboration between industry and academia is vital for impactful solutions to society’s most pressing priorities and challenges”, he said.

“Lomonosov Moscow State University has a vast experience of fundamental research in the areas of geophysics and geochemistry, digital modelling and big data analytics, and collaboration with Saudi Aramco will assist in turning theoretical ideas into practical developments and innovations,” said Andrey A. Fedyanin, vice-rector of Lomonosov Moscow State University. “MSU welcomes the achievement of the milestone in partnership with Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest integrated oil and gas company. We believe that the signing of the MoU will give a new impulse for our cooperation.” The King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, was selected for Time magazine’s premier World’s Greatest Places 2018, a compendium of “100 destinations to experience right now.” Featured in the August 24 issue, the list highlights 100 sites spanning six continents and 48 countries, selected across a range of categories and evaluated for quality, originality, innovation, sustainability and influence. The King Abdulaziz Center was one of five sites in the Middle East that made the list. Also known as Ithra, the architectural marvel was built as a corporate social responsibility initiative by Saudi Aramco to serve as a national and regional catalyst for intellectual development, creativity and cross-cultural sharing. Its state-of-the-art, multi-disciplinary facilities attract thousands of visitors for initiatives and events from around the world.

The Center consists of a 1600-square-meter Great Hall; a museum with four galleries, each focusing on a specific range of cultural expression spanning Saudi identity and heritage, Islamic art and civilization, and the culture of the Arabian peninsula. A cinema is home to the Saudi Film Festival, and a library holds more than half a million items. The Performing Arts Theater is a 1,000-seat opera house, and the Knowledge Tower hosts 2,000 annual workshops including STEM (science, technology, engineering and math) and reading programming for youth.

By showcasing the Kingdom’s rich cultural heritage and hosting or collaborating on international projects, the King Abdulaziz Center encourages the understanding that flows from artistic expression into all aspects of life, at home and abroad. Organizations with which Ithra has partnered include the Smithsonian Institution, the National Geographic Foundation, the French Pompidou Center, and the Arab World Institute in Paris.

Hundreds of volunteers make up more than 20 percent of the King Abdulaziz Center’s staffing.

Since its inauguration by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn Abdulaziz in 2016, the Center has emerged as a pioneering force offering unprecedented access to unique arts, culture and knowledge programming.Saudi Aramco, the world's leading integrated energy and chemicals company, released today its 2017 Annual Review highlighting strategic achievements that reinforce the company’s role as the number one producer of crude oil and condensate, adding value by integrating refining and chemicals production, and expanding cleaner natural gas supply to meet domestic demand. Amin Nasser noted that in 2017, Saudi Aramco progressed a slate of oil and gas mega-projects in the Upstream. He also highlighted that in the Downstream, the company continued to enhance its global network and completed key agreements designed to extract maximum value across the hydrocarbon value chain. Importantly, he said Saudi Aramco’s safety performance remained strong and among the highest in the industry. In 2017, Saudi Aramco reinforced its premier upstream oil and gas position, optimizing its stewardship of the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources. Designed to maximize long-term value, the company’s upstream strategy focuses on leveraging competitive advantages in production scale.

The Company will maintain its position as the world’s leading crude oil producer by production volume by tempering production from mature fields, accelerating younger fields and secondary reservoirs, and developing fresh reserves from new increments, while diversifying operations to capture value from strategic integration and expand natural gas activities.

The company produced an average of 10.2 million barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil, including condensate. Total raw gas processing averaged 12.4 billion standard cubic feet per day (scfd). The company discovered two new oil fields (Sakab southeast of Haradh and Zumul in the Rub’ al-Khali) and a gas reservoir (Jauf, in the Sahba field), and continued its program to increase the capacity of the Khurais field by 300,000 bpd in 2018.

The company continued its efforts to increase domestic gas supplies, providing additional feedstock to drive industrial utilities expansion and improve national energy efficiency, while making more crude oil available for export. Major project achievements included readying the Midyan non-associated gas field to produce 75 million scfd of natural gas and 4,500 bpd of condensate, displacing liquid fuels for use in power generation, and progress on the Fadhili Gas Plant designed to process up to 2.5 billion scfd of raw gas, a component in raising the company’s overall gas processing capacity.

Additional programs to expand capacity included the Hawiyah Gas Plant’s new processing facilities, which are expected to come on-stream in 2021, and add more than 1.1 billion scfd of processing capacity for a total of approximately 3.6 billion scfd. The company started engineering, procurement and construction of a natural gas liquids deep recovery train at the Uthmaniyah Gas Plant that will recover ethane and other NGLs from natural gas produced from the Uthmaniyah Gas Plant and the Hawiyah Gas Plant expansion.

 Saudi Aramco’s Downstream continued to provide an engine for the company’s growth and diversification, driving value across the hydrocarbon chain by expanding and integrating the company’s portfolio and partnerships, and creating additional revenue streams. In 2017, crude oil exports averaged 6.9 million bpd, and gross refining capacity was 4.9 million bpd.

Saudi Aramco completed the acquisition of Motiva, which includes North America’s largest single-site crude oil refinery in Port Arthur, Texas, and signed an agreement to participate in Malaysia’s Refinery and Petrochemicals Integrated Development (RAPID) project with Petronas, which includes a 300,000 bpd refinery, three million tons per annum of olefins capacity, and chemicals manufacturing units. In addition, a Memorandum of Understanding was signed with Norinco to build a 300,000 bpd capacity refinery and expand another in China.

In-Kingdom, the company’s Sadara joint venture with The Dow Chemical Company also witnessed a milestone with the full operation of the last of its 26 plants — a commissioning that takes Saudi Arabia’s chemicals industry to the next era. The facility achieved reliable operations at full design feed capacity of 85 million scfd of ethane and 53,000 bpd of naphtha.

Our approach to downstream integration, expansion and petrochemicals growth is underpinned by our unwavering commitment to technology and innovation, and developing world-class collaborative partnerships to advance cutting-edge science.

This means efficiently applying existing and proven Crude Oil to Chemicals Technologies (COTC) on a large scale industrial basis, and also pioneering new Crude to Chemicals (C2C) technologies that advance the forefront of knowledge and boundaries of what is possible in petrochemicals production.

Saudi Aramco is continuing its pioneering thermal crude oil to chemicals (C2C) technology program that was successfully piloted in 2017 and delivered higher chemicals yield than previously achieved. We also established a strategic partnership with leading technology providers, Chicago Bridge & Iron and Chevron Lummus Global, to de-risk and scale up this technology.

Saudi Aramco also signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Saudi Arabian Basic Industries (SABIC) to develop a fully integrated crude oil to chemicals (COTC) complex in Saudi Arabia that is anticipated to process 400,000 bpd and deliver an annual output of 9 million tons per annum of chemicals and base oils, in addition to transport fuels.

Aramco Performance Materials began commercial operations in 2017, selling its first consignment of cost competitive and sustainable CONVERGE® polyols that are used in a broad range of high performance applications such as polyurethane coatings, elastomers, and adhesives, and contain up to 50% carbon dioxide, demonstrating how it can be converted into useful products.

In the drive to grow its base oils business, Saudi Aramco marked a number of milestones in 2017, including establishing a global interchangeable slate of Saudi Aramco branded base oils among the company’s LUBEREF, S-Oil, and Motiva affiliates, and starting domestic sales of aramcoDURA® and aramcoPRIMA® base oils.

 Continued investment in pioneering technology, a global R&D network, and collaborative partnerships are key elements driving the company’s operational efficiency and production performance.

In 2017, computational modeling resolution enhancements were made to the cornerstone TeraPOWERS and GigaPOWERS reservoir simulators for better understanding of reservoir enhancements. The GeoDRIVE integrated seismic imaging platform, another company technology, was developed to enable ultra-high resolution subsurface mapping and characterization.

Saudi Aramco also expanded its use of innovative nonmetallic materials. More than 2,300 kilometers of non-metallic pipe was deployed, resulting in significant cost avoidance throughout the life cycle. Nonmetallics also create additional markets for crude oil in the construction, automotive, renewable energy and other sectors, and support local manufacturing opportunities.

Saudi Aramco’s commitment to innovation was highlighted by the fact that in 2017, 230 U.S. patents were granted — a record for the company. A significant number of these patents reflect the company’s continued investment in further reducing the greenhouse gas intensity of crude oil and its derivatives that will reap benefits for energy producers and consumers alike.

 Sustaining low carbon intensity crude oil is a major focus, achieved by applying best practices at every stage of operations.

In 2017, a major well-to-refinery study of all the crude oil grades supplied to the Chinese market from over 20 countries highlighted that Saudi Arabian crude oils have the lowest carbon intensity, reflecting the productivity of Saudi Aramco reservoirs, low water production hence less energy expended, and low flaring rates. Flaring intensity remained at less than 1% of annual gas production in 2017.

In fuel engine technology, the company completed a vehicle demonstration at its Aramco Fuel Research Center in Paris with a fully integrated octane-on-demand system that reduces CO2 emissions. The technology uses two fuels to achieve anti-knock quality and improves efficiency over gasoline engines by an estimated 8%.

 Saudi Aramco continued its long-standing tradition of positive outreach in line with the company’s strategic objectives.

With ongoing programs to boost competency in critical science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) disciplines, Saudi Aramco continued to help prepare a highly skilled future workforce, a key focus for the Kingdom’s majority youth population. Outreach in 2017 also included support for higher education programs, including energy studies, sustainability and energy efficiency.

Facilitating the growth of micro industries provided tools for communities throughout Saudi Arabia to improve their economic well-being. Programs protecting the Kingdom’s unique and ecologically sensitive habitats included the Mangrove Eco-Park at Ras Tanura currently under construction, and the Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary.

The company’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, expected to attract 1.5 million visitors each year, offered a diverse slate of content to enrich the arts and cultural offering.

The company also reached out to people in need with programs designed for immediate, positive impact, such as “I Want to Hear,” which provided 1,000 people with hearing aids, examinations and fittings.

 President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “Our achievements in 2017 reflected Saudi Aramco’s steadfast commitment to helping ensure global energy demand will be met for years to come, pursuing technologies and initiatives to derive even greater value from oil through petrochemicals and advanced materials, and investing in R&D to continue reducing energy’s carbon footprint and improving the Company’s operational efficiency. Our highly capable and talented employees will build on 2017’s successes to reinforce our leading position in oil and gas exploration and production, further our downstream growth, and maintain our focus on innovation.”

Click here to download the full 2017 Annual ReviewRegional winners of the “Aramco Asia Energy Cup” — qualifiers from China, Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, and South Korea — gathered for a key event in the Chinese capital of Beijing for the final contest after one year of intense competition, careful selection, and evaluation of the researchers’ innovative projects. The Energy Cup has been designed to support the next generation of entrepreneurs in the Asia-Pacific region by providing them with the resources and expertise they need to develop innovative solutions.

The final contest attracted more than 150 graduate students, academic advisers, and industry experts, with Aramco Asia management acting as judges and observers at the event.

Funded through Saudi Aramco’s 2017 annual donation to the Asia-Pacific region, this innovative program was jointly developed and carried out by Aramco Asia and Enactus — a nonprofit organization dedicated to inspiring students to improve the world through entrepreneurship accomplishments.

The North China Electric Power University (Baoding) undergraduate team won the top award of the Asia-Pacific competition with its creative design of a biogas photovoltaic complementary power generation system that helped farmers save electricity.

The program was launched in October 2016 with a theme of “Sustainability for Energy, Environment, and Climate Change.” It reached over 199,000 graduate and postgraduate students from 380 universities in China, Singapore, South Korea, Malaysia, and the Philippines, and helped them find innovative solutions to the environment and sustainability challenges.

As the company is striving to realize the long-term economic blueprint for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, Saudi Aramco is maintaining a growing presence in Asia-Pacific and contributing to the future success of the region. Its business activities and expertise are leveraged for the benefits of the people and communities by strategizing and providing support to sustainability and environmental policies in the host countries. Saudi Aramco, Air Products (NYSE: APD), and ACWA Power today announced the signing of a Term Sheet to form a Gasification/Power joint venture (JV) located at Jazan Economic City (JEC) in Saudi Arabia. The JV will purchase the gasification assets, power block and the associated utilities from Saudi Aramco for approximately over $8 billion. These assets are currently under construction and will be transferred to the JV upon successful start-up, scheduled in 2019.

The JV will own and operate the facility under a 25-year contract for a fixed monthly fee. Saudi Aramco will supply feedstock to the JV, and the JV will produce power, hydrogen and other utilities for Saudi Aramco. Air Products will own at least 55 percent of the JV, with Saudi Aramco and ACWA Power owning the balance.

The JV builds upon the importance and recognition that critical infrastructure assets in the region are being developed and operated under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model.

The consortium will increase job opportunities and transfer the most advanced technologies in this field to the Kingdom, and enable Saudi talent to employ this technology for the first time.

The JV will serve Saudi Aramco’s Jazan Refinery and terminal at JEC, a megaproject that will process heavy and medium crude oil to create liquefied petroleum gas, sulfur, asphalt, benzene and paraxylene, and add 400,000 barrels per day of refining capacity.

Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi said, “The Gasification/Power JV will be central to the self-sufficiency of our megaprojects at Jazan. The JV will enhance the overall value of the refinery and integrated gasification combined cycle power plant, and aid in transforming the province by positioning JEC for additional foreign direct investment and private sector involvement.”

Air Products Chairman, President and CEO, Seifi Ghasemi, said, “Air Products is very honored to be given this outstanding opportunity to expand our involvement in this megaproject in partnership with Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest company, and ACWA Power, the leading private power producer in the Middle East. Earlier this year, Air Products acquired the patents for the Shell liquids gasification technology, which is the core technology for the Jazan gasification facility. Building on the success of our Lu’An project in China, this new project further extends Air Products’ leadership position supplying syngas to major companies around the world. We appreciate the trust that Saudi Aramco continues to place in us, first in awarding us the air separation unit, and now moving toward an expanded scope of supply at Jazan.”

Ghasemi noted that the JV furthers the efforts of the Public Private Partnership (PPP) model to develop critical infrastructure assets in the region, a key component of the Kingdom’s Saudi Vision 2030.

ACWA Power Chairman, Mohammad Abunayyan added: “ACWA Power is committed to the expansion of the PPP model into the power sector. ACWA Power plays an important role in the power sector in the Kingdom and welcomes the opportunity to assist in the further development of Jazan economic corridor. Furthermore, our collaboration with industry leading companies, Saudi Aramco and Air Products, will stimulate growth and innovation, aligned with Saudi Vision 2030.”Khalid H. Al-Dabbagh was appointed senior vice president of Finance, Strategy & Development by Saudi Aramco Board of Directors, effective Sept. 1, 2018. Al-Dabbagh has been the company’s financial controller since January 2012. He was responsible for Saudi Aramco’s global accounting activities, issuance of the annual financial report and the maintenance of effective internal controls. He provided business intelligence and advisory services, and was responsible for developing and maintaining corporate performance programs. Al-Dabbagh also oversaw the annual operating and capital budgeting processes, and the evaluation of proposed investments by the company.

In October 2010, Al-Dabbagh was appointed treasurer after serving as the acting executive head of Treasury since February 2010. From September 2008, he was the manager of Business Analysis Department at Corporate Planning. Prior to that, Al-Dabbagh was the acting executive director of Marketing, Supply and Joint Venture Coordination.

Previous positions he held included manager of Saudi Aramco’s Crude Oil Sales and Marketing; director of Joint Venture Development and Support; President and CEO of Saudi Petroleum International Inc. in New York; and General Manager of Saudi Petroleum Limited in Tokyo. Al-Dabbagh has also served as a Board Director with Showa Shell, Fujian Refining and Petrochemical Company, Luberef, SUMED, and vice chairman of Sinopec SenMei Products Company.

Al-Dabbagh has been a Board member of Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures, the Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center, and the Netherland’s Arlanxeo JV. He also served as a Board member of Aramco Trading Company and the chairman of their Board Audit Committee. He is currently a Board member of Sadara; and the Pengerang Refining and Petrochemical (PrefChem) joint venture with Malaysia’s Petronas. In addition, he represents Saudi Aramco on the Board of Governors of the GCC Board Directors Institute.

Al-Dabbagh earned a bachelor’s degree in industrial engineering from the University of Toledo. He has completed a number of executive leadership programs, including the Senior Executive Program at London Business School.A longtime Saudi Aramco-sponsored program assisted 36 U.S. science teachers in combining practical knowledge about geology with their classroom studies during an annual geology camp this summer. 
Known as “G-Camp” (Geology Camp), the decade-long program partners Saudi Aramco with Texas A&M University to give teachers the unique opportunity to embark on a geological dig throughout the southwestern region of the United States.

“As a lead sponsor of the program, Saudi Aramco is a natural fit — since geology and unlocking the secrets of the Earth’s crust to meet our consumers’ energy needs are at the core of our business. It’s been our mission for the past 80-plus years,” said Jack Moore, director of Aramco Services Company’s Washington, D.C., office.

G-Camp also highlights Aramco’s dedication to STEM education programs (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) worldwide. Besides the G-Camp program, Aramco also sponsors the iExplore science program for fifth-grade teachers and students at the Houston Museum of Natural Science. The idea of both programs is to equip teachers with new techniques to keep students interested in STEM-related fields.

 
The teachers, representing grades 5-12, were selected from throughout the U.S. and spent 18 days on a geological journey through Texas, Colorado, and New Mexico. Along the way, the teachers created science lessons to share with their students back in the classroom. They worked on developing curriculum material, virtual field trips for their students, and participated in hands-on outdoor learning to identify the processes that form and shape the surface of the earth.

The teachers viewed beautiful land forms, including the Great Sand Dunes, an area of large sand dunes up to 750 feet high in south-central Colorado, Taos Gorge and Valles Caldera, a 13.7-mile wide volcanic caldera in the Jemez Mountains of northern New Mexico. Among the different geological features explored were ancient marine deposits, faults, glacial landscapes, streams, landslides, energy resources, and mineral resources.

Rick Giardino and Carolyn Schroeder — faculty at Texas A&M University’s Department of Geology and Geosciences — founded the camp in 2007 and have served as advisers and mentors for the science teachers.

Giardino started the program because he wanted to give teachers, who do not necessarily have an extensive background in geology, an opportunity to gain more hands-on experience and better equip them to teach their students.

“Teachers come here, and we introduce them to the principles and basics of geology. They get to touch it. They get to taste it. They experience it,” Giardino said.

 
Timothy Diggs, a senior geological consultant at Aramco Services Company, also traveled for four days with the G-Camp participants through New Mexico. “It was important for a geoscientist to go and give the teachers an industry perspective on some of the things they were seeing in the field because a lot of the information is only seen from an academic standpoint,” he said.

Diggs focuses on technology reconnaissance to help Saudi Aramco increase productivity and efficiency. With an extensive background in geology, he was thrilled to join the teachers on the trip.

“Our knowledge of the various aspects complemented one another, and as a result, it was a great learning experience for everyone,” he said. Saudi Aramco, a world leading integrated energy and chemcials company, and leading specialty chemicals company, LANXESS, today announced Saudi Aramco’s proposed acquisition of LANXESS‘s interest in ARLANXEO, a Netherlands-based specialty chemicals joint venture between Saudi Aramco and LANXESS launched in 2016. Saudi Aramco’s proposed purchase of LANXESS’s 50% share in ARLANXEO, valued at €1.5 billion on an enterprise value basis, would result in Saudi Aramco owning 100% of ARLANXEO, diversify Saudi Aramco’s downstream portfolio at an opportune time, and strengthen Saudi Aramco’s capabilities across the entire petroleum value-chain.

Saudi Aramco‘s Senior Vice President of Downstream, Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, noted that the proposed acquisition is key to Saudi Aramco’s strategy to become the world’s foremost integrated energy and chemicals company.

“The proposed purchase underscores Saudi Aramco’s strategy to further diversify our downstream portfolio and strengthen our capabilities across the entire petroleum and chemicals value chain. Notably the acquisition will accelerate our growth into C4-based chemicals including butadiene and isobutylene,” Al-Judaimi said.

ARLANXEO is a world-class synthetic rubber and elastomer products company that supplies leading tire and auto-parts to manufacturers around the globe. As a fully owned subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, ARLANXEO will accelerate the development of growth opportunities in the Kingdom, leveraging the strong feedstock position of Saudi Aramco.

In addition, ARLANXEO will enhance Saudi Aramco’s sustainability efforts to optimize tire performance-related fuel consumption, which could potentially result in a savings of as much as seven percent. This will complement Saudi Aramco‘s fuel/engine R&D strategy, which is focused on increasing mileage efficiency and reducing engine emissions in the future. This is well aligned with Saudi Aramco’s overarching downstream strategy, which aims to drive value across the hydrocarbon chain by expanding and integrating its portfolio and partnerships, and creating additional revenue streams.

Under Saudi Aramco’s 100% ownership, ARLANXEO would continue to serve the development, production, marketing, sale and distribution of specialty chemicals and synthetic rubber products, principally for the high-volume global tire and automotive industries. ARLANXEO would maintain its current base in Maastricht, the Netherlands.

The proposed transaction has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both Saudi Aramco and LANXESS. Subject to the receipt of all regulatory approvals and consultation with the competent employee representative bodies, Saudi Aramco and LANXESS are targeting December 31, 2018 for the completion of the transaction. Saudi Aramco Technologies Company (a Saudi Aramco company), Mazda and the National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology (AIST) today announced a cooperative research program to develop advanced engine/fuel combinations, with potential for meaningful improvements in engine efficiency and CO2 reductions assessed on a well-to-wheel basis. Al-Khowaiter also said that new engine technologies continue to prove that improving the internal combustion engine (ICE) remains the most cost-effective and timely means to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from the transport sector, with the potential to yield dramatic results.

In this collaboration, Saudi Aramco will provide low carbon-content new fuels, and Mazda’s contribution will be a high-efficiency advanced prototype engine based on their SKYACTIV technologies. The entire scope of research will be tested and optimized at AIST headquarters in Tokyo.

The program consists of comprehensive CO2 assessment through refinery modelling, engine testing, spray diagnostics, and Computational Fluid Dynamics simulations. The anticipated benefit of this approach is a holistic view of the ICE’s environmental impact.

Saudi Aramco has devoted years of intensive investment to co-developing fuels and engine research, as part of its global Transport Technology program.

Saudi Aramco supports Gasoline Compression Ignition (GCI) technology as a viable development route to achieving high fuel efficiency with low emissions; and new fuel formulations to further complement this engine concept. The GCI concept, which is Saudi Aramco’s flagship project within this research program, will enable 25-30 percent reduction in CO2 compared to conventional gasoline spark-ignition engines.

Mazda’s advanced prototype engine is based on a Compression Ignition engine with ultra-lean burn combustion.

Mazda’s engine technologies and Aramco’s GCI fuel technologies complement each other. The GCI fuel has a lower carbon content and higher heating value than commercial diesel and gasoline fuels; and the lean burn engine emits lower CO2 than conventional gasoline engines. The companies expect that combining the engine and fuel technologies will deliver substantial savings in well-to-wheel CO2 emissions.

Together Mazda, AIST and Saudi Aramco believe that this new collaboration will showcase the ICE platform’s abundant potential for cost-effective efficiency improvement and reduced GHG emissions.

The collaboration aligns with the partners’ strategic intent to create real solutions for CO2 reduction taking total emissions into consideration, while delivering efficient, reliable engine and fuels performance.

The joint work is expected to be completed in fiscal 2020, with ongoing contribution by researchers from all three parties. Saudi Aramco will resume its oil shipments through Bab-El-Mandeb Strait with immediate effect. The Company will continue to monitor the situation and remain ready to take necessary actions in efforts to constantly ensure the safety and reliability of supply to its customers through its wide network which has the flexibility to export oil through multiple ports.

The Company puts the utmost importance to environment and safety of its people and will take all necessary actions to safeguard people, assets and the environment while continuing to reliably supply energy to its customers.A new state-of-the-art facility recently launched by our Drilling and Workover (D&WO) Training Division has doubled the number of participants the organization can bring in to meet Saudi Aramco’s demand, all while enhancing the learning experience and exceeding international standards in well control training. Planned, developed, and implemented over a number of phases, the project transformed a warehouse into a state-of-the art well control school. Adding to its international quality measures, the D&WO Training Division that oversees this new facility is accredited by the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training (ACCET).

D&WO Training rigorously seeks to keep its programs current, relevant, and educationally sound by maintaining ACCET and keeping other accreditations current such as the International Association of Drilling Contractors (IADC).

D&WO’s in-house well control training not only maintained the international standard of well control training and certification, but also exceeded many aspects, including: The new school includes two state-of-the-art classrooms — with space for 24 participants — in a facility that holds four different types of well control simulators and its one-of-a-kind visualization wall.

With this new facility, D&WO is doubling its annual intake. Over the past five years, it has succeeded in certifying more than 2,500 employees to handle all well control situations. It has also assessed more than 500 experienced new-hire foremen before field deployment as an additional quality safety measure to meet Saudi Aramco’s additional quality and safety standards. Well control training plays a critical role in the development of a competent crew. Being able to respond quickly and successfully to alerts and incidents saves time, money, the environment, and most importantly, the lives of people. Well control certification is the first line of defense Saudi Aramco has against well control situations.

By ensuring that professionals in the field have the proper certifications, the training helps protect against any potential well control situations. Judging a professional’s reaction during a well control scenario is priceless. Having a well control certification gives us the extra assurance, control, and confidence to run safe operations.

The well control school offers five well control courses ranging from introductory to advanced levels for drilling engineers and field personnel all the way up to supervisory level. It also offers a stuck pipe prevention course.

Each course is assessed with a combination of exams, in addition to a practical assessment where participants must demonstrate the practical and technical skills required to complete the well kill operation. A number of essential leadership and problem solving skills are embedded in these courses, boosting decision making processes required for critical operations. Along with training and certifying employees, the school has started providing opportunities to field management to simulate and test real operations in a safe and realistic environment before commencing drilling. Test data is plugged into the system to run scenarios, and the machine then analyzes and runs expected results in audio, video, and data formats, allowing for calculated decision making.

To boost the value of the school, D&WO plans to work towards graduating its first batch of well control specialists, among other specialties serving D&WO and representing the organization technically and academically on local, regional, and international levels while producing valuable research input in the area of well control.  Over the past few years, women have started venturing into the previously male-dominated field of engineering in ever increasing numbers. Renad Ismail is one such employee who has already made her mark in a powerful way at Saudi Aramco. 
As a company, we place a high value on strengthening the female career pipeline, and Ismail’s success is evidence that the first section of this pipeline is running smoothly. 
An early career chemical engineer who started in the College Degree Program for Non-Employees (CDPNE), Ismail has most recently worked on our Crude Oil to Chemicals project team. 
Chemicals is the fastest growing crude oil demand sector, and also the fastest growing segment of our business. We’re developing new, more efficient ways to convert crude oil into chemicals, resulting in chemicals that are less expensive to produce and that have a light energy and carbon intensity. 
The Chemicals Business Coordination and Support Department (CBC&SD) Crude Oil to Chemicals project team, which Ismail was part of, was awarded the 2018 Saudi Aramco Excellence Award, with recognition from the president and CEO and the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors.  A: The project team was large. The scope of the project was to develop highly integrated process configurations to convert crude oil to chemicals at unprecedented rates. I was part of the Chemicals Business technical team and headed the IP team responsible for writing and submitting patent documents and applications for 72 technical schemes of the project, including 65 configurations and more than 200 possible embodiments. 
A: It was a great honor to be selected by my department. My happiness was indescribable, and I felt the recognition was a tribute to every work task, assignment, and educational certification I have earned since my start with the company in 2007 as a CDPNE. 
A: I worked on a number of petrochemical projects with CBC&SD and also with the Process and Control Systems Department. Also, besides being interested in the technical and petrochemical field, I have done work in project management, earning PMP certification from the Project Management Institute. This was a valuable assignment and learning experience. 
A: There is significant support from the company for Saudi women, not only to attract and then provide a quality work environment, but also to accommodate female engineers by developing them scientifically and professionally. Over the past five years, I was exposed to a range of programs presented by the Women Development and Diversity Division that was fundamental in my development. 
I was also sponsored by the Chemicals admin area to earn a master’s degree in advanced chemical engineering, and while doing so, I coauthored and published a paper that was presented during the 68th meeting of the American Physical Society. 
A: My family’s role was and still is very important to me. The support I received from my mother and my husband during my master’s program was one of the most important factors that enabled me to complete my mission. They are the source of my strength and steadiness during moments of doubt or weakness. Their support always encouraged me to do more. 
But I do have to say that the role of your professional family, as well as your family at home, are both very critical. I am blessed by the support of both families. The appreciation, respect, and cooperative work environment I have found with the Chemicals Team at CBC&SD has always been an incentive and a motive to progress. As confirmed a short while ago by the Saudi Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, H.E. Khalid Al-Falih, two Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCCs), each with a two million barrels capacity, operated by the Saudi National Shipping Company, Bahri, and transporting Saudi Aramco crude oil were attacked by terrorist Houthi militia this morning in the Red Sea. One of the ships sustained minimal damage. No injuries nor oil spill have been reported. In the interest of the safety of ships and their crews and to avoid the risk of oil spill, Saudi Aramco has temporarily halted all oil shipments through Bab El-Mandeb with immediate effect. The Company is carefully assessing the situation and will take further action as prudence demands. With startup in 2025, the fully integrated Crude Oil to Chemicals (COTC) complex is on track to become the largest of its kind in the world. It will become a major contributor to Saudi Vision 2030, enabling a new era of industrial diversification, job creation, and technology development in the Kingdom. The complex is expected to process 400,000 barrels per day of Arabian Light crude oil, which will produce approximately nine million tons of chemicals and nine million tons of fuels per year. Also notable, it is projected to achieve a direct conversion rate from crude oil to chemicals of up to 50%, which is unprecedented globally.

Saudi Aramco and the Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) — who are partnering on the giga-project — awarded a contract to KBR, a global leader in project management and engineering services, to develop a part of the COTC complex.

KBR will provide the front-end engineering and design for the downstream petrochemicals and chemicals component within the COTC master complex. The scope includes engineering studies, infrastructure planning and development for both of the polymer and glycol units, along with the aromatics complex, the COTC master plot plan, and offsite utilities. 

The KBR project management contract is the second that Saudi Aramco and SABIC have awarded for the COTC project. Wood, also a leading project management and engineering firm, was granted the first contract to provide engineering and design for the refining components, mixed feed steam cracker, on-site utilities, interface and site integration, and selection of technology providers.

“We are counting on the long-standing relationship between Saudi Aramco and SABIC on one side, and KBR on the other, to develop this preliminary engineering package for the world-class complex.” says Fahad E. Al-Helal, vice president of Project Management.

Commitment to safety
A recently held kickoff meeting included a ceremonial signing of a safety pledge by senior leadership and project team members from all three companies. Dubbed “Zero Harm,” the KBR safety program engages project sponsors and team members at all levels to commit to a 24/7 safety mindset — one that never waivers and can never be compromised.

The KBR leadership members expressed their appreciation to Saudi Aramco and SABIC for the partnership, and further acknowledged the pivotal role KBR will have in the COTC project.

KBR’s president and CEO Stuart Bradie: “We are excited about the opportunity to continue our proud legacy in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, delivering giga-projects such as COTC."

KBR was also a major partner in development of the Sadara Chemical Project. Ibrahim noted, “Through this contract, we will continue our commitment to meeting the objectives of both the in-Kingdom local content and Vision 2030 programs.”

Saudi Aramco's U.S. affiliate company Aramco Services Company (ASC) is managing the KBR contract on behalf of Saudi Aramco. Basil A. Abul-Hamayel, ASC president and CEO, said: “We are excited about the COTC project, and its enormous potential to make such a positive impact. The ASC team will continue to give its full support to the project management team to help ensure success." Saudi Aramco has noticed media speculation regarding its possible interest in acquiring an ownership position in the Saudi Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC). Consistent with the company’s strategy of rebalancing its portfolio by moving further into downstream and the petrochemical sector in particular, the company has been evaluating a number of acquisition opportunities, both local and global. Saudi Aramco confirms that it is engaged in very early-stage discussions with the Public Investment Fund (PIF) regarding acquiring a strategic interest in SABIC by way of a private transaction. These discussions are preliminary and there is no certainty that any such transaction will take place. Saudi Aramco has no plans to acquire any publicly held shares of SABIC.

If further announcements are appropriate, they will be made in compliance with applicable regulations.Saudi Aramco recently signed a comprehensive Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) to facilitate closer business cooperation under the framework of Saudi Vision 2030. The MoU was signed by Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Technical Services, and Kwon Pyung-Oh, president of KOTRA.

Under the MoU, working groups between Saudi Aramco and KOTRA — by and through both parties’ subsidiaries — will be established to collaborate in the areas of trade, investment, and human resources development. The collaboration will also include building up communication channels, identification and support of current and potential investors, improvement and creation of human resources training programs, and co-hosting of seminars, workshops, forums, and roadshows.

“The collaboration between Saudi Aramco and KOTRA to establish a platform for Korean companies’ investment in the Kingdom to serve Saudi Aramco’s supply chain will help strengthen the competitiveness of Korean companies in Saudi Arabia and the GCC region, and contribute to Saudi Aramco’s long-term iktva goals and Saudi Vision 2030,” said Al Sa’adi.

“Many Korean companies hope to participate in Saudi Aramco projects,” said Kwon. “If KOTRA and Saudi Aramco strengthen our two-way communication and expand our collaboration for Vision 2030, it will set a role model for partnership and expand the presence of Korean businesses in Saudi Arabia.”

KOTRA, a state funded organization under the Korean Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, functions as a global business platform to support Korean companies’ business expansion overseas. It also provides trade and investment infrastructure support through their 124 offices in 84 countries. Three Saudi Aramco initiatives were recently honored at the Manufacturing Leadership Summit in California for their contributions to engineering and production technology leadership. The first award recognized a groundbreaking Saudi Aramco pilot project to implement Advance Process Control (APC) technology in a conventional oil field.

Many of Saudi Aramco’s oil fields utilize an ‘intelligent field infrastructure’ to connect and monitor or control the operation. APC implementation utilizing these intelligent fields will enable efficient oil production and better reservoir management across the company. The pilot demonstrated reduced power consumption by efficiently managing electric submersible pumps (ESPs) installed deep underground, and improved flow compliance to target production.

 The second award recognized the Demulsifier Dosing Automation Enhancement Project at the South Ghawar Producing Department.

Proper dosing of demulsifier is critical to the performance of gas-oil separation plants and to maintain crude quality for our customers. The Simplified Logic Injection Control (SLIC) demulsifier automation algorithm not only automatically adjusts for changing rates and temperature, but the responses are also pre-programmed for commonly occurring process upsets.

The SLIC algorithm was developed completely in-house all the way from the concept stage to the programming for the diverse Distributed Control System in service. Designed to be robust so that it is easily operated, the concept is modular and adjustable, so if new technologies such as the salt-in-crude analyzer are implemented, this can be easily impeded in the SLIC algorithm.

The initiative has resulted in several improvements, including fully automated demulsifier control through proactive, reactive, and preventive modes of operation as well as stabilized process parameters and reduced upsets. It also has simplified the control by minimizing operation intervention and has reduced established input parameters with improved automation uptime and an effective service factor.

 The final Manufacturing Leadership award recognized Saudi Aramco’s North Ghawar Producing Department (NGPD) and Research and Development Center (R&DC) Department for its work on the online conductivity and salt-in-crude analyzers.

Saudi Aramco specifies that the maximum salt content of the export crude oil shall be lower than 10 pounds per thousand barrels. That value is commonly specified by the refineries receiving crude oil to prevent costly corrosion in the equipment, catalyst deactivation, and/or higher fuel consumption due to the fouling of the heat exchangers used to preheat the crude. Continuous, real-time salt-in-crude measurements allow a proactive approach to guarantee that the produced crude oil is within specification at all times.

The salt-in-crude analyzer was developed by R&DC as an innovative approach that improves other industry practices by using a robust and simplified design more suitable for its application to oil fields’ scattered facilities due to its minimal maintenance and calibration needs. Reliable and accurate salt-in-crude analyzers open many real-time optimization possibilities in surface production facilities that have a large business impact. After a series of visits to European and U.S. cities, the The “Roads of Arabia” exhibition tour journeyed through the Far East region of China, South Korea, and Japan.

More than a half million Asian visitors flocked to see over 400 rare archeological objects that cover a period going back to the Stone Age a million years ago up to the reign of King ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud in the 20th century. This was the first time these objects were shown outside of the Kingdom.

“Roads of Arabia: Archeological Treasures of Saudi Arabia,” a joint initiative by Saudi Aramco’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage, had its Asian debut at the National Museum of China in Beijing in early 2017, graced by The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz visit along with Chinese President Xi Jinping. The Arab world is one of deserts, mosques, unique costumes, pilgrimages, and camels through the eyes of many Chinese. As one Chinese visitor said: “The exhibition helped me to get a deeper understanding of the Islamic history and culture. It certainly broadened my mind and raised my awareness of the Arab culture and was definitely worth a visit.”

The stop in China was followed by the exhibit’s stay at the National Museum of Korea in Seoul, where Aramco Asia-Korea leveraged the unique opportunity by organizing a curator-guided tour for 40 university students with disabilities, collaborating with one of its local corporate social responsibility partners.

The exhibition tour’s final stop in the Far East was Japan. Tokyo National Museum enjoyed an average of 3,000 visitors per day from the first day, ending in May with 250,000 visitors — making it one of the highest turnouts of any special exhibitions held at the historic Hyokeikan Building.

 Takuzo Onozuka, curator at the Tokyo National Museum who guided numerous enthusiastic local visitors, commented: “Our encounter with ‘Roads’ is a milestone for our museum. We have a long history of collecting, displaying, and conducting research on artwork and antiquities from Japan and Asian countries.

“However, our expertise in western Asia and the Arab World had been rather limited in comparison. We hope this exhibition serves as a catalyst for expediting information and people exchanges between two countries, and that more valuable findings will surface in the future.”

“China, South Korea, and Japan are all important strategic markets for Saudi Aramco,” said Anwar A. Al Hejazi, acting president of Aramco Asia, noting that the three markets combined consume more than three million barrels per day of Arabian crude oil. “Yet, each country differs from one another. But with this exhibition, we found a common ground, an appreciation for heritage.

“Today, as we move to forge a deeper relationship with the Far East region, this record high number of visitors at three sites proves genuine interest toward the Arabic heritage from people in this part of the world. The ‘Roads,’ through its journey across the region, has contributed to a deepening understanding and building a sense of being connected with our region,” he added.Saudi Aramco announced that it is adjusting its Asia crude oil pricing marker in an effort to increase the overall reliability of its crude oil pricing. Saudi Aramco’s long-standing price marker was the average of Platts Dubai and Platts Oman assessments. The company’s new Asia marker will replace Platts Oman with Dubai Mercantile Exchange (DME) Oman effective October 1, 2018, creating a hybrid between two major Asia benchmarks.

Ahmed Subaey, Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Marketing, Sales and Supply Planning said, “We’re rebalancing our Asia marker to ensure that it is underpinned by a broad and vibrant marketplace. The inclusion of the DME Oman price complements the existing Platts Dubai price to provide our customers with better visibility into price dynamics. Our main objective is to ensure that our marker is market-reflective, well-regulated, and predictable, and we are confident that the DME Oman price, combined with the Platts Dubai price will serve that purpose.” Speaking at the OPEC International Seminar, Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser said investment in the upstream oil sector would need to rebound following a period of decline from 2014 to 2016. “What we do at Saudi Aramco is invest over the long term — and our investments since the downturn, in both upstream and downstream — did not decrease, but they actually increased,” he told a packed auditorium at the 7th edition of the OPEC Seminar in Vienna. “However, what we have noticed in the rest of the world is a big drop in investments, which will likely impact future supply.” While the trajectory of investment is now positive, Nasser said that it may not be adequate. “For certain companies in a low price scenario, they cannot continue investing or sustain investments at low prices. While companies maintain the same level of shareholder dividend, investments have dropped, especially in exploration, which has been hit badly,” he said. Nasser highlighted that most new major developments, except for offshore Africa, have been severely impacted by a lack of investment. ‘Global Oil Future Challenges’ Moderated by John Defterios from CNN, Nasser participated in a panel session called “Global Oil Future Challenges” alongside Andrew Gould, former CEO of Schlumberger and a current member of Saudi Aramco’s Board of Directors; Hess Corp. CEO John Hess; Gazprom Neft’s head of Strategy and Innovation Sergey Vakulenko; Chevron’s Business Development vice president Jay R. Pryoer; and Oando, PLC Group chief executive Jubril A. Tinubu. Gould suggested the industry should not be threatened by a short-term demand drop, though it was noticeable that operators are now focusing on quick returns as a result — at the expense of ultimate recovery. Nasser was also quizzed on the impact of transportation, given its importance to oil demand. “I believe heavy trucks, shipping, and aviation will see decent growth,” he said. “But of course, we are expecting fleets to be more efficient and have lower carbon emissions as a result of improvements in technology. “What you see in terms of a decline of growth in oil demand is driven more by efficiency improvements, such as in internal combustion engines rather than from electric vehicles and renewables,” he added. Speaking on the opening day, OPEC Secretary General HE Mohammad S. Barkindo, who said the event was a “who’s who of global oil and energy industry leaders,” also underlined the importance of cooperation. This year’s seminar focused on petroleum’s contribution to a sustainable energy future and featured ministers and officials from OPEC and non-OPEC member countries alike. In addition to senior leadership of many leading oil companies, there were also a number of leading scientists and energy experts in attendance. According to OPEC, the seminar is designed to reinforce the organization’s longstanding commitment of striving toward a secure and stable market in support of a healthy global economy. Aramco Asia-Japan’s (AAJ) Strategic Procurement and Logistics Department (SPLD) recently hosted the first Suppliers Forum in Tokyo to place stronger emphasis on fostering closer ties with commercial suppliers. Approximately 160 delegates from over 90 companies, as well as representatives from Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, the Japan External Trade Organization, and all three Japanese mega-banks attended the event co-hosted by the Japan Cooperation Center for the Middle East. The forum was held for the first time in Japan to target Japanese suppliers with objectives to expand and strengthen the supply base to AAJ, explain the supplier’s qualification process, and introduce the localization program “iktva,” which is also a part of the joint “Saudi-Japan Vision 2030” between Saudi Arabia and Japan. Omar M. Al-Amudi, representative director of AAJ, opened the forum with his welcoming remarks. “This forum couldn’t have come at a better time, because Saudi Aramco has huge investment opportunities over the coming 10 years. And those will include a number of mega-projects where certain Japanese suppliers such as you are expected to play a major role,” he said.A team from Saudi Aramco followed by delivering presentations on how to do business with the company, and the technical and quality requirements of the approval process for manufacturers. The iktva program was also introduced and explained in detail, together with two success stories of Japanese companies, J-Power Systems Saudi Co. Ltd., and Azbil Saudi Ltd. — both having established their own local manufacturing in Saudi Arabia. In the afternoon, a series of one-on-one meetings covered various subjects such as local investment and the approval process from a commercial, technical, and quality perspective. Attendees were actively engaged throughout the entire program, which promoted open dialog and strong interest from the supplier community. The iktva session received the highest number of attendees and was divided into three sessions provided by Imran A. Hariri, administrator in the Supplier Relationship Management Division in Purchasing and Supply Chain Management, and Abdulrahman Z. Al-Mogren, deputy managing director of AAJ SPLD. The AAJ SPLD team will continue supporting the suppliers who have shown interest in doing business with Saudi Aramco and developing localization plans in all possible ways to promote and make “doing business with Saudi Aramco” a reality. Omar M. Al-Amudi delivers the opening remarks at the first Suppliers Forum in Tokyo. The goal of the event was to place stronger emphasis on fostering closer ties with commercial suppliers.  Saudi Aramco and the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) announced today that they have signed a Framework Agreement to jointly develop the Ratnagiri Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited (RRPCL), a 1.2 million barrels per day integrated mega refinery and petrochemicals complex at Ratnagiri, 215 miles south of Mumbai in Maharashtra, India. The Framework Agreement was signed by Amin Nasser, CEO of Saudi Aramco, His Excellency Dr Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO. The agreement defines the principles of the joint strategic cooperation between Saudi Aramco and ADNOC to jointly build, own and operate the complex in collaboration with a consortium of Indian national oil companies currently consisting of Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCl), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL). Saudi Aramco and ADNOC will jointly own 50% of the new joint venture Company RRPCL, with the remaining 50% owned by the Indian Consortium. Furthermore, Saudi Aramco CEO Amin H. Nasser signed an MoU and Acknowledgement with ADNOC, Ratnagiri Refinery & Petrochemicals Limited (RRPCL), Indian Oil Corporation Ltd., Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation.  The MOU was signed by His Excellency Dr Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO, Sanjiv Singh, Chairman of the Indian Oil Corporation Ltd, M.K. Surana, Chairman and Managing Director, Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd, D Rajkumar, Chairman and Managing Director, Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. B Ashok, CEO of the Ratnagiri Refining and Petrochemical Company Ltd also witnessed the signing. His Highness Sheikh Abdullah bin Zayed bin Sultan Al Nahyan, UAE Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, and Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, India’s Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas, witnessed the signing of the agreements between ADNOC, Saudi Aramco and a consortium of three Indian oil companies, to explore a strategic partnership and co-investment in the development of a new US $44 billion mega refinery and petrochemicals complex at Ratnagiri, on India’s west coast. The partnership between Saudi Aramco and ADNOC marks a significant step in regional energy partnership and cooperation, bringing together two of the world’s leading National Oil Companies as strategic partners with the Indian consortium. It will also combine their considerable expertise spanning crude supply, resources and technologies, along with an established commercial presence and global reach. A pre-feasibility study to determine the project’s overall configuration will now be jointly executed by the parties. H.E. Dr. Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO, commented: “This project is a clear example of our expanded downstream strategy, where we will make strategic, commercially-driven, targeted investments, both in the UAE and abroad. By investing in this project, we will both secure off-take of our crude to a key market for ADNOC, as well as strengthen access in one of the world’s largest and fastest growing refining and petrochemical markets. It underlines our expanded approach to energy partnerships by joining hands with both Saudi Aramco, and our Indian colleagues, combining a truly unique set of assets, capabilities and market reach to meet India's projected energy demand growth. Further, the project executes on the wise directives of the UAE’s leadership, to strengthen and enhance our long-term ties with these strategic partners, building on the successful partnerships that are already in place.”Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco president and CEO, emphasized the JV’s long-range focus. “World energy demand is expected to grow exponentially by 2050, driven in large part by India,” Nasser said. “Saudi Aramco is proud to partner with ADNOC and RRPCL to help ensure that the world’s fastest-growing economy has secure, reliable energy feedstocks for its long-term prosperity. The Ratnagiri project will meet India’s rising demand for fuels and chemical products while serving the strategic objectives of the partners. I am pleased that Saudi Aramco will deepen its engagement in India’s fast-growing oil and gas sector through this project that also positions us for future collaboration here as a key element of our company’s global downstream strategy.” H.E. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan, Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas said: "Our oil and gas relations have taken a major leap today with the signing of the MoU between Saudi Aramco and ADNOC. This will make the UAE and Saudi Arabia partners in India's rapidly growing refining sector and in India's growth story."Corrosion is a global problem that costs the world $2.5 trillion annually. This chemical process is most often seen on metal surfaces as rust and can result in catastrophic failure of infrastructure, such as bridges. Researchers at the Aramco Research Center-Boston have teamed up with scientists at the Center for Integrated Nanotechnologies (CINT) at Sandia National Laboratories — one of the U.S.’s leading national laboratories — to investigate the nanoscale mechanisms responsible for corrosion initiation and progression in steel. Recently, this team’s work was brought to the attention of the U.S. Senate’s Energy and Natural Resources Committee at a user science exhibition. Representing Aramco at the event were Michele Ostraat, Steven Hayden, Rachael Grudt, and Antonya Sanders. CINT representatives included scientist Katherine Jungjohann and CINT director Andreas Roelofs. “Each national lab selected their most successful and impactful user collaboration,” says Roelofs. “Aramco is a valued CINT collaborator, and their representatives have proven to be wonderful spokespeople for CINT and the Nanoscale Science Research Center program.” Out of thousands of possible candidates, CINT and Aramco’s proposal was one of the 15 chosen for an interactive display at the exhibition due to the importance and impact this research could have on the world economy. As part of the event, the team interacted with senators and their staff members, using demonstrations and models to explain scientific investigations and important findings. Sanders says the booth highlighted estimated corrosion costs in each senator’s state and their effect on bridges there, including a percentage of them that are structurally compromised or functionally obsolete because of corrosion. Visitors then interacted with a sifting sand demonstration that explained the difference between uniformed and localized corrosion. “One of the big challenges in avoiding corrosion-related disasters stems from the difference between uniformed and localized corrosion,” says Grudt. “Uniformed corrosion progresses at a predictable rate based on conditions. However, localized corrosion, which can progress much faster than uniformed corrosion, is very poorly understood, and therefore, much more challenging to predict. It is localized corrosion that often leads to infrastructure and pipeline failures sooner than expected, with varying degrees of catastrophe resulting.” The next step for the senators was to use a light board and puzzle together various graphical data sets that the team had 3-D printed using in-house capabilities from the Boston center. The final technique allowed the senators to observe the results of the team’s most recent advancement — flowing a liquid solution over a steel sample about the size of a bacterium inside an electron microscope and watching in real time as corrosion initiated at the nanoscale level. “Our collaboration with CINT allows us to apply highly scientific, cutting-edge technologies to understand corrosion of real-world pipeline steel,” says Hayden. “We aren’t the first to use these technologies, but we are the first to look at these field relevant materials, and that’s what makes this work so exciting. Our recent observations have identified a weakest link in the steel structure, which has potentially huge repercussions for how steels are processed and for the advancement of the corrosion prediction models that are ubiquitous in industry.” This research is still in its early stages. The next steps include looking at various coatings and processes in which steel can be made less susceptible to corrosion. As carbon steel is used all over the world, the impact of this research could be profound. Other industries that would be interested in this research and follow-on technology include steel manufacturing; utilities (electric, drinking water, sewage); construction of bridges, ships, and vehicles; hazardous waste; and world governments.CINT is funded by the U.S. government as part of the Nanoscale Science Research Center Program as a National User Facility. These user facilities are available to anyone around the world, free of charge for nonproprietary research with the intent to publish, in efforts for the U.S. government to speed up technological advancement in specific areas. The products of this research and investment will be published in open literature. The collaboration between CINT and Aramco has been an opportunity to leverage the capabilities and expertise of both parties to produce high impact research and bring global benefits. Ostraat praises the collaboration project. “We are very excited about our collaboration with CINT at Sandia,” she says. “Our joint expertise and capabilities have allowed us to perform truly groundbreaking fundamental research on a global materials challenge. We look forward to the next steps in this collaboration where we work on identifying solutions that will have far-reaching impact, not only for Aramco, but for the world.” Sitting before a wide dashboard of switches, dials, regulators, gauges and screens, Sultan Al Ahmadi’s eyes are a flurry of activity as they focus in on the many numbers and valves before him. He flicks a switch and adjusts a dial. He has to be precise. There’s no room for complacency. Al Ahmadi is on board the Zamil Six. Around 20 feet away, Abdullah F. Al Amiri feels the effects of Al Ahmadi’s actions. Al Amiri is sitting patiently inside a LARS — a metal cage measuring 6 feet by 3 feet, as it stands perilously close to the edge. The meshed cage that surrounds him is attached to a winch that will soon shift into gear and lower both the cage and occupant into the Arabian Gulf waters below. Donning a diving helmet that weighs approximately 15 kilograms, Al Amiri’s every move is tracked by a camera and two-way communication system that is part of his essential headgear. It’s Al Ahmadi who is keeping a close eye on the whole proceedings, communicating directly via radio. Al Amiri is a Saudi Aramco diver. As part of the Marine Department’s Underwater Inspection and Repair Unit (UIRU), his working world is subsea — among the marine and plant life of the Arabian Gulf. Today he is performing an underwater inspection of the Zamil Six vessel. Along with fellow divers, their job is to inspect, repair, and maintain the integrity of company offshore assets, including barges, vessels, platforms, and pipelines. His wingman on this job is Al Ahmadi, a diving supervisor who is responsible for the pre-dive safety checks and the dive and diver in general — from the time he leaves the surface to completing his decompression and reaching the surface again. Before Al Amiri, or any diver for that matter, submerges, the diving supervisor must give the green light. The UIRU serves as Saudi Aramco’s eyes, ears and indeed hands, beneath the sea. Divers, equipped with a sniper’s vision, are dispatched to carry out detailed work in an environment that was not created for human interaction. “The team amazes me,” says Marine Department manager Mohammad A. Sultan. “They are always ready, no matter what it takes, to get the job done.” The UIRU is a testament to Saudi Aramco’s efforts to ensure that its operations are optimal, efficient, and above all, safe — no matter the environment.At his desk, Petros Kogiamis is busy. His phone rings constantly. “Hello, diving” he answers. Another customer is on the line. UIRU services are in big demand and Kogiamis is the focal point. On any given day he can receive between 20 to 40 job requests, which are officially received through the Marine Department’s Marine Operations Management (MOM) system. Rain or shine, the calls keep coming. The jobs vary in their requirements and complexity. To respond appropriately, at the unit’s disposal are five vessels that are able to operate in varying water depths — two shallow water vessels that operate in waters from 2 ½ to 15 meters; two diving support vessels that operate in waters ranging from 15 to 50 meters; and one saturation diving vessel that can operate in water depths ranging from 30 to 300 meters. Each of the vessels also has portable diving equipment that can be utilized onboard purpose built zodiacs. This allows the unit to reach extreme shallow areas up to the shoreline if need be. Kogiamis’s 32 years of diving experience mean the subsea is almost his second home. There’s not much he hasn’t seen in the world of professional diving. It’s this experience that makes him a perfect fit for his role. In the hot seat, he assesses which vessels are available for the required jobs, in addition to dispatching instructions to divers and receiving operational updates. It’s no surprise, then, that despite its inconspicuous appearance, his cubicle is known as “the brain.” “I communicate with our colleagues on the vessels,” he notes. “From here we can see and monitor everything in real time and we know exactly where the vessels are and what dive jobs they are working on. It’s a 24-hour operation — it doesn’t stop.” An ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure, the old adage goes. Each year, the unit runs a proactive campaign to inspect 650 kilometers of subsea pipelines in addition to 72 platforms — helping to prolong the life cycle of the assets. “By carrying out inspections we can spot any potential issues before they happen and intervene,” notes Kogiamis. “The subsea environment has many challenges, so keeping a close eye on things is crucially important.”One of the vessels Kogiamis tracks is the Mermaid Asiana. On first appearances, there is nothing seemingly unusual about the vessel. Certainly, the elevated helicopter deck that stands at the front of the vessel is eye-catching — but far from uncommon on large vessels. But it’s below deck, deep into the core of the purpose-built saturation diving support vessel, where on a daily basis, an operation that grapples with the laws of nature takes place.The saturation unit is pressurized to almost the same depth level at which the divers will be working subsea. Inspecting company assets at such depths for long periods of time means that saturation divers need to stay in the water longer and deeper than conventional commercial divers. Regular commercial divers will work for around 20 to 90 minutes in shallower water depths up to 50 meters, then take around 40 minutes to resurface due to the necessary decompression stops along the way. If divers resurface too quickly they can suffer decompression sickness, which is the result of having breathed gas that is at a higher pressure than the surface pressure. This happens when divers remain subsea for long periods at greater depth, without ascending gradually and making the decompression stops needed to slowly reduce the excess pressure of inert gases dissolved in the body. In the saturation unit Al Omoud and other divers will breathe a mixture of gases, including oxygen and helium. Once the body is saturated it means the diver can be deployed from the saturation unit into the water, and more importantly, he can come straight back without the need for decompression stops. Saturation divers are, therefore, able to work at greater depths for longer periods of time. “One of the biggest advantages of having a vessel like the Mermaid Asiana and its saturation divers is that they can be dispatched at a moment’s notice to deep depths — we don’t have to worry about the divers being saturated or getting decompressed on their return,” notes superintendent of Marine Offshore Operations, Turki M. Shihri. “This means we save time and money, but more importantly, it means we are always ready to deal with any situation.” Al Omoud will be saturated in the same chamber where he sleeps and rests. To get to the seafloor, he will exit his pressure chamber through an airlock and enter a diving bell. The diving bell is then lowered to the seabed, or required working depth, and Al Omoud is released to work. Once finished, Al Omoud, or any other saturation diver, will re-enter the bell, which is then hoisted back to the vessel. All the time, his world does not go beyond the subsea area and the saturation chamber. Saturation diving is all about depth and time. However, even operating in shallow waters can throw up the most challenging of scenarios. But even in this instance, UIRU was to prove, that through ingenuity and technology, no challenge is unsurpassable. Connected to an umbilical cord, a diver submerges to begin a shallow water inspection of a Saudi Aramco asset. The umbilical cord resembles a thick yellow rope, and serves as the conduit for a supply of diving gases. It also contains reinforced wires allowing radio communication with the diver, as well as providing light to the diver and a camera feed back to the surface dive panel. The cord is connected to a shallow water inspection vessel. However, it must operate carefully, a host of potential problems await — not least the risk of impact with the sea bed or underwater obstacles in the shallow waters. It’s risky business. Necessity is the mother of invention, and the UIRU turned to the company’s Research and Development Center’s Intelligent Systems Lab for assistance. How could they inspect assets in shallow waters and avoid the potential hazards to the support vessels? Seven engineers based within the Oil and Gas Network Integrity Division were assigned to work with three members of the Marine Department, and in less than two years they successfully developed the Shallow Water Inspection and Monitoring Robot (SWIM-R). The device is able to conduct visual inspections, marine life cleaning, ultrasonic thickness readings, and cathodic protection voltage measurements in shallow waters. Divers can now operate the vehicle remotely from onboard the dive vessels. “This was a great leap,” notes URIU head Khaldoun I. Bukhari. “It is a very effective way to carry out our operations in shallow waters and is a great example of collaboration between different departments.” One of the operators of SWIM-R is 28-year-old Shadi S. Negaimshi. He serves as a trainee diving supervisor, and also operates the technology from above the surface in a diving support vessel. “This was a breakthrough technology that was developed specifically for our operations,” he notes. “Obviously it gives me great pride to be part of its deployment — it shows that the company is always looking at innovative ways to tackle operational challenges.” Negaimshi is no stranger to serving the interests of the Kingdom — in fact he’s quite a pro. It was in 2008, when the eyes of the world were on Beijing, that he first stepped forward and represented Saudi Arabia at the Olympics as a freestyle swimmer.“There is a special relationship between me and the water,” says Eyad T. Al Hajji, with a look of contemplation. The 40-year-old diver from al-Khobar is rarely at his seat. As a diving supervisor he is busy either overseeing dive operations on vessels, or in his office at the Tanajib pier ensuring tasks run smoothly.  In the world of Saudi Aramco marine operations, Al Hajji is a pioneer. When he joined Saudi Aramco’s diving operations in 2006, there were no other Saudis on the team. He would be the first — and a sign of things to come. “I knew the job with Saudi Aramco would be exciting,” he explains. “It would present me with new challenges and I was ready to take them on. It was a source of immense pride for me to be the first Saudi diver for the company.” A period of intense training was arranged that included a diving medic course and a program in Nondestructive Testing/Subsea Inspection — crucial skills for Al Hajji’s line of work with the company. “I always love to dive — you never know what you are going to face. That’s the beauty of this job. You are operating in an environment that is alien to human life — it’s not natural for humans to be under the water. “Sometimes I would ask myself while subsurface — ‘what am I doing here?’ But this environment brings out the best in human ingenuity.” Despite his relatively young age, Al-Hajji is now considered a mentor in the unit. Younger Saudi blood is now stepping forward, carrying the torch first lit by the ‘pioneer.’  As admin clerks with the Marine Technical Services Department, Musab A. Hmod and Metab Y. Otaif would find themselves at the heart of supporting the department’s operations. The pair both attended the Industrial Training Center in Dhahran and joined their new organization together.  One morning, like hundreds of others across their department, they received what seemed to be a regular email. Yet it turned out to be the beginning of a new and exciting journey — one they would once again carry out together. Hmod and Otaif were part of a drive to internally recruit divers to join UIRU. But they would have to prove themselves under immense physical and psychological challenges to qualify. “We have an internal recruitment process — it’s rigorous and we only recruit the very best,” notes Bukhari.  A comprehensive training program would now kick in. The friends, who were now colleagues, joined a three-month orientation on board Saudi Aramco vessels. They would observe diving operations, safety procedures, and the uses of the decompression chamber. This was followed by an intense 90-day underwater diving training program in Saldanha Bay in South Africa.  Each day, the pair would train in diving operations from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. They would be given basic seaman training and would see their physical fitness skyrocket. After successfully graduating from the course, the pair rejoined the unit as fully qualified divers. Like others in UIRU, Hmod and Otaif work five days continuously and then have two days off. This may sound like a regular work schedule — not quite. Their five working days are often spent aboard vessels on the Arabian Gulf, where they work, eat and sleep.A city known for its rich geologic surroundings served as the setting for the 2018 American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) Annual Convention and Exhibition. Salt Lake City, a stone’s throw from the Green River Basin and its abundant natural gas reserves, was a good jumping off point for Saudi Aramco attendees, who participated in a pre-show conference field trip and then followed up with a high visibility show presence during the technical sessions, award ceremonies, and exhibition. The company was a diamond level sponsor. A key highlight was Aramco’s participation in the greatly anticipated inaugural presentation of a new forum called Super Basins, which will become a mainstay of the annual show and include follow-up papers in show publications. The forum is intended to bring new insight into petroleum basins with massive opportunity and capability for production over time.  Hosted on opening day, the session featured Said A. Al Hajri, manager of Saudi Aramco’s Geological Operations Department, who presented “The Basins and Petroleum Systems of the Middle East.” Al Hajri shared the historic significance and evolution of the Arabian plate, including the major petroleum basins, and Aramco’s innovation culture that is driving the next stages in fully maximizing these basins, as well as the Red Sea’s promise in both shallow and deepwater. Rounding out the story of Aramco, he touched on alternative energy — wind and solar — that are being pursued in the Kingdom. Al Hajri also honored Saudi Aramco geology visionaries who blazed a trail during their careers and were well-known in AAPG circles — Ali Al-Hwaj, who passed away last week and was Saudi Aramco’s manager of Area Exploration, and Abdulla A. Al-Naim, who passed away in 2013 and was vice president of Saudi Aramco Exploration. “AAPG is important not only for the quality of programming but also the quality of the friendships that are created across geographies, cultures, and companies,” Al Hajri said. “This year’s program was a strong one for Saudi Aramco, with our professionals being selected to present a number of papers and posters. This reflected well on our capabilities, as the content of the technical sessions was especially strong.”  A group of geoscientists from Aramco joined colleagues from TGS for a visit to Warfield Quarry. The quarry is near Kemmerer, Wyoming — where the elevation is 7,300 feet above sea level — and is a noted locality for fossil collection from the Green River Formation. The Eocene-age Green River Formation is world-renowned for fish fossils and is one of the largest accumulations of lacustrine sediments in the world. A series of basins developed as the Rocky Mountains were uplifted millions of years ago. Sediments were shed from the highlands and deposited into the basins. These basins contained freshwater and existed in a climate that was subtropical, as interpreted from fossilized fish, crocodiles, boa constrictors, and fossilized plants such as palm trees. The Green River Formation contains the largest oil shale reserves in the world. Unlike conventional oil resources, oil is recovered from oil shale by using heat or dissolution techniques that currently are uneconomic. Gretchen Gillis, geologist at Aramco Services and longtime AAPG member, received an Honorary Member Award, which is bestowed on individuals who have distinguished themselves by their service and devotion to the science and profession of petroleum geology. It is AAPG’s third highest award. She said afterward: “It’s an honor to be recognized by AAPG and to represent Aramco. As a longtime member of AAPG, I am proud of what we as a company contribute to the industry in terms of technical leadership and support for ongoing professional excellence.” Saudi Aramco was also recognized for its diamond level sponsorship of the Imperial Barrel Award (IBA), AAPG’s graduate student competition to evaluate prospective basins. Anwar M. Al-Beaiji, a geologist in Saudi Aramco’s Exploration Resource Assessment Department and president-elect of AAPG’s Middle East region, delivered remarks during the awards ceremony, congratulating all the participants and encouraging students to stay active by helping mentor the next year’s IBA team at their schools. The company’s exhibit attracted strong attendance by fellow professionals, job seekers, and sponsored students. In-booth presentations included “Tracing Oil Migration” by Constantin Sandu and “Microporosity Technologies” by Lauren Stout, both of the Aramco Research Center-Houston. Another notable aspect of this year’s conference was the technology being demonstrated on the show floor. “On the one hand, the show is heavily focused on deepening the understanding of plays, with the goal of discovering more,” said Al Hajri. “Yet, there’s also this major confluence of exhibitors, all showing their views of what’s next in technology.” Aramco had a strong technical presence with numerous presentations, posters, and papers. Susan Agar, geology technology lead at the Aramco Research Center-Houston and the AAPG Theme Chair-Energy Innovation, sat on AAPG’s Technical Committee for the conference. Aramco’s ongoing role in supporting the AAPG agenda for the annual show, as well as regional and special topic conferences, is shaping the industry discussion and is part of the company’s commitment to industry leadership.Saudi Aramco signed 16 contracts with seven companies to operate and maintain facilities in its community over the next 10 years. The contracts signing took place during a ceremony in Dhahran where Saudi Aramco signed the contracts with Al-Yamama Company for Trading and Contracting; Arabian Fal Holding Company; Abdulwahab Mansour Al-Moallam Sons Company; Rezayat Company Ltd; Al-Tamimi Global Company for Services and Maintenance; SRACO Company; and Nesma and Partners Contracting Company Ltd. “The contracts are in line with Saudi Aramco’s continuous efforts to develop its community facilities and increase their efficiency while maintaining the highest safety standards,” said Mohammed Al-Shammary, Saudi Aramco Vice President for Community Services. “In addition, the contracts will create job opportunities for Saudi graduates of the National Training Center for Facilities & Hospitality Management (FHM) that was co-established by Saudi Aramco,” Al-Shammary added. FHM was established by Saudi Aramco jointly with the Technical & Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC) and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage in 2017. The center aims at capturing opportunities in the hospitality and facilities management industry to create jobs for Saudi youth by equipping them with the required education and skills via offering internally-accredited training courses.  Al-Shammary also added: “These contracts are the beginning in fulfilling their commitment in providing best in class services”.
Scientists from Saudi Aramco’s Research and Development Center (R&DC) recently organized the eighth annual meeting of the Saudi Arabian Section of the Combustion Institute.   The meeting, held at the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center (KAPSARC) in Riyadh, brought together more than 100 experts from institutions in Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Oman, and the U.S. The theme of the meeting was “Clean and Efficient Utilization of Fuels for a Sustainable Future.” The meeting was jointly organized by KAPSARC and the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST).     As a leading global exporter of energy, Saudi Arabia has an important role to play in the development of technologies that promote and enhance sustainability. The establishment of the Saudi Arabian Section in 2010 was central to this objective.      “Our local section actively supports the growth and development of the Kingdom’s young scientists,” said Kai Morganti, a scientist in the Saudi Aramco R&DC and secretary of the Saudi Arabian section. “These meetings provide a forum for networking with top researchers, disseminating knowledge, and promoting the role of combustion technology as a key pillar of sustainability.”    Improving the combustion community’s understanding of fuel engine interactions is also central to Saudi Aramco’s efforts to improve energy efficiency in the transport sector.      The growing global demands for energy and environmental sustainability pose tremendous challenges and opportunities for the combustion research community.      “There is no one-fit-for-all solution to address these challenges,” said Hong Im, professor at KAUST and chairman of the Saudi Arabian Section.      Instead, synergistic integration of conventional and emerging technologies, including renewables, will be essential in delivering solutions that are both environmentally and socially sustainable. “I am proud to be part of the many world-class researchers in the Kingdom who will lead these efforts,” said Im.      Sustainability was the recurring theme in the three invited lectures at this year’s meeting. Sylvain Côté, program director for Energy Demand, Efficiency, and Productivity at KAPSARC, discussed the challenges and opportunities associated with the transition to renewable energy in the Kingdom. Among these, Côté highlighted the need for targeted policy action by the government to help alleviate an anticipated skills gap.     “Although the emerging renewable energy sector is expected to provide new jobs, it is equally important to recognize the limitation and reflect on the adjustment and reform efforts needed. If not, the current labor mismatch could represent a lost opportunity for the upcoming young Saudi population,” said Côté.     Anvita Arora, program director for Transport and Urban Infrastructure at KAPSARC, discussed strategies for environmentally and socially sustainable urban transport systems.      “Our research is closely aligned with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 and the National Transportation Strategy, which seeks to reduce domestic dependence on oil while creating smart and sustainable cities throughout the Kingdom,” said Arora.     The final invited lecture was delivered by Dimitrios Kyritsis, professor and chairman of the Department of Mechanical Engineering at Khalifa University in the UAE. His lecture highlighted the role of carbon capture in addressing the climate challenge, while also unlocking additional petroleum resources when used for enhanced oil recovery.      “This technology has already been deployed in the Kingdom, with approximately 800,000 tons of carbon dioxide captured and stored each year,” said Kyritsis. “Carbon capture and storage can enhance sustainability on a large-scale.”     The Combustion Institute was founded in 1954. Its purpose is to promote and disseminate research into combustion science and engineering. It serves as the parent organization for approximately 30 local sections around the world, including Saudi Arabia. The local section was founded in 2010 with about 30 members. Today, it has grown to more than 140 members. Among other activities, the local section coordinates meetings and workshops on various aspects of combustion, sustainability, and energy conversion science.     In its eight-year history, the Saudi Arabian Section has grown in size and stature. “The section now has more than 140 members in-Kingdom,” says Maryam Al Taher, a scientist in the Saudi Aramco R&DC and co-organizer of this year’s meeting.      In recent years, the local meetings have also been attracting greater participation from high-profile international researchers.      “This reflects favorably on the standard of research undertaken in the Kingdom,” said Al Taher. “We expect the growth in both local and international participants will continue its upward trajectory in the future.” Saudi Aramco today signed the Unconventional Gas Stimulation Services contract with Halliburton to further improve the economics of Saudi Aramco’s Unconventional Resources Program.   The contract signing ceremony, which was attended by Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco and Jeffrey A. Miller, President and CEO of Halliburton, reflects Saudi Aramco’s pursuit of unconventional gas to serve domestic needs, offset local crude burning, provide feedstock for chemical industry development, and spur regional economic development in line with Vision 2030, the Kingdom’s national transformation program.  The new agreement will provide lump sum turnkey stimulation services which include major hydraulic fracturing and well intervention operations.   Amin H. Nasser said: “Over the past three years, Saudi Aramco has made great strides in developing our unconventional resources program, with emphasis on unconventional gas as an important clean energy source for the Kingdom’s future. Now, with this contract formalized today with Halliburton, we enter the important next phase of achieving our gas expansion objectives. Halliburton has been a reliable provider of products, services and technologies to our company for many decades. We welcome their expertise in unconventional resources, and we have great confidence in our joint ability to achieve operational and cost efficiencies for this important growth area.”  Saudi Aramco’s Unconventional Resources program spans three areas of Saudi Arabia: North Arabia, South Ghawar and Jafurah/Rub’ Al-Khali. Saudi Aramco today awarded a contract for a permanent communications system serving its Haradh Increment to Networks & System Integration S.A. Co. Ltd. (NESIC Saudi Arabia) as part of Aramco’s Gas Compression Program in Haradh and Hawiyah. During a ceremony in Dhahran, Fahad Al-Helal, Saudi Aramco vice president of Project Management, signed the contract which involves engineering, procurement and construction of permanent communications infrastructure and services, including SCADA-RTU Systems and backbone connection to support the operation of the nine new Gas Compression Plants (GCPs), seven Liquid Separation Stations (LSSs) and three Operational Support and Administration Areas. “Expanding natural gas production and supply is central to key Saudi Aramco objectives, including diversifying the Kingdom’s energy mix and reducing dependence on oil for domestic needs such as power generation with a clean energy source,” Al-Helal said. “Today’s contract is in line with these goals, and in addition to the environmental implications will support the nation’s industrial growth. The Permanent Communications System project will enhance the Haradh Increment Program, which is a catalyst for economic development by increasing total gas production by more than one billion standard cubic feet per day.”   The Saudi Aramco Fire Protection Department (FrPD) recently collaborated with the International Association of Fire Chiefs (IAFC) to deliver the First International Fire Operations Conference. Held at a Manama-area hotel under the patronage of Lt. General Sheikh Rashed Bin Abdullah Al Khalifa, Minister of Interior for the Kingdom of Bahrain, the historic forum created a platform for fire operations education on a global platform.     The IAFC is the preeminent organization representing leadership of emergency responders worldwide and is well versed in such events, but this was the first on a global scale — a springboard off the success of the FrPD/IAFC Fire Officers Fellowship Program.     The event opened with a series of fire technology exhibitions and pre-conference workshops hosted by fire protection experts from around the world. Topics included fire service leadership, complex challenges in commercial and residential fires, and dissecting how lessons from the past are helping fire service leaders in shaping the future.     Among those from Saudi Aramco taking part in the forum were Bader F. Al Qadran, executive director of Safety and Industrial Security (S&IS); Ghassan G. Abulfaraj, FrPD manager; and other members of the S&IS management team. The event also saw key participation from high-level government officials, as well as fire chief Thomas Jenkins, president of the IAFC.     Al Qadran and Jenkins each delivered opening remarks, speaking on the future challenges facing the fire protection profession and the importance of international collaboration in finding solutions. They also expressed their gratitude to those who made the conference possible.     Saudi Aramco also received recognition, with Al Qadran accepting an award for his ongoing support to the development of international firefighters, and Abulfaraj receiving the IAFC Presidents Award for outstanding visionary leadership contributions to fire protection. Abulfaraj is the first ever recipient in the 20-year history of the award from outside of North America.     Other awards included a recognition for representatives of U.S. fire services that hosted Saudi Aramco firefighters as part of the Fire Officers Fellowship program.     More than 300 participants attended the two-day conference, including firefighters, fire officers, and fire chiefs from across the Middle East and beyond. FrPD representatives Waleed Abdulhadi, general supervisor of the Engineering and Training Division; Rami Kurdi, head of the Training Section; and Hamad Melaihi, Training Group leader, led the organization and execution of all conference activities.     A series of events were held over the two days, including classes and panel discussions hosted by speakers from Saudi Arabia, the U.S., South Africa, South Korea, and the U.K. Among the topics covered in the varied sessions ranged from frontline leadership to special operations required in complex emergencies, to fire ground safety and major disaster responses.     Saudi Aramco personnel played a key role in the sessions, with workshops being delivered by Mezher N. Al Qahtani, superintendent of the Ras Tanura Fire Protection Division; Mohammed AbuHussain, Fire Operations Technical Support Group engineer; and Majed Marri, also a Fire Operations Technical Support Group engineer. Overall, the conference’s success was evident from the long discussions and connections made by the attendees, more than 300 delegates, presenters, exhibitors, and sponsors, who overwhelmingly asked for the opportunity to attend future conferences of the same nature. “Saudi Aramco proved that it is the world leader not just in energy production, but also in the furthering and exploration of excellence in all fields by providing a forum to delve deep into the pressing questions faced by the global fire service,” said Jenkins. “This was truly a historic gathering of experts in fire operations and fire service leaders. We are very proud to offer these educational opportunities in collaboration with Saudi Aramco as part of the first conference dedicated to fire operations ever held in the Middle East.” Abulfaraj echoed Jenkins comments. “We are very proud of our collaborative efforts with IAFC to launch the First International Fire Operations Conference in the region — a truly momentous initiative. This platform will allow our fire leaders to learn from past experiences, contemplate game-changing concepts in the field of fire protection, and move forward in shaping the future,” he said. Finally, the conference was brought to a close with a panel session featuring fire service leaders from around the world to compare and contrast experiences in dealing with common fire protection challenges. Among those participating was Majed Almarri of FrPD.   Good morning ladies and gentlemen.    Let me first thank Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee for those insightful remarks, his warm and generous hospitality, and everyone involved in organizing today’s event here in Pengerang. Tan Sri, it is always a pleasure to be back in Malaysia.    My team and I are especially honored to be with all of you as we enter the Holy Month of Ramadan.    The relationship between the people of Malaysia and Saudi Arabia dates back centuries, and is a source of great pride for us.   And this ceremony to launch PRefChem shows how the strategic partnership between Saudi Aramco and Petronas is only getting deeper.      We have reached a key milestone in our journey together through the share purchase agreement, registration of the names of the joint ventures, and by unveiling the new logo.      I applaud the hard work, professionalism, and collaborative spirit shown by our teams throughout the journey.      I also want to commend all those involved in the mechanical completion of some units that we will witness today as well.     By reaching these new milestones, let me briefly explain why these two joint ventures in refining and petrochemicals that make up PRefChem are important.  First, the ventures will help to meet the rapidly rising demand for refined products and chemicals in the ASEAN region and beyond.   Second, Malaysia is among the most strategically important locations in that region.      The complexes being built here are designed to leverage that advantage as well as advantages in economies of scale and integration.     And as someone who knows a giga project when he sees one, this clearly qualifies – the scale is truly breathtaking!  Third, and most important of all, I have no doubt that the complexes will benefit the people of Johor once complete – providing employment, and contributing to the local economy in many ways, including the procurement of goods and services.     Our joint ventures with Petronas are also a perfect fit with Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy.      We are building an integrated downstream business, and intend to grow our global refining footprint from roughly 5 million barrels per day now to between 8 and 10 barrels per day by 2030.      We are also placing much greater emphasis on turning crude oil into chemicals, including the development and advancement of cutting-edge materials; creating a world-class integrated base lubes business; and feeding all of them through our large and highly reliable crude oil supplies.      Our efforts here in South-East Asia (and indeed the whole Asia-Pacific region) are central to achieving those downstream expansion goals.      But as Tan Sri and I know well, none of our strategies would bear fruit without our partners.      We have long recognized that local companies bring an intimate knowledge of the market that we simply could not replicate alone.     In this case, PRefChem brings together the world-class expertise of Saudi Aramco and Petronas in project management, operations, technology, and marketing, as well as the strength of the world’s largest exporter of crude oil.      In other words, PRefChem checks all the boxes, and we wish Dr. Colin Wong and his JV management team every success.      Ladies and Gentlemen, today’s milestones bring us another step closer to project completion.      And with another big push by all stakeholders, I have no doubt that we will all be back soon to celebrate a successful and safe commissioning and startup.      Thank you, and I wish you and your families a joyous and blessed Ramadan ahead.      Ramadan Mubarak!  Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS), the national oil company of Malaysia and Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco); today launched the corporate identity for their joint ventures in the Pengerang Integrated Complex (PIC) located in Pengerang, Johor, Malaysia, namely Pengerang Refining Company Sdn Bhd (PRefChem Refining) *1 and Pengerang Petrochemical Company Sdn Bhd (PRefChem Petrochemical)*2, collectively known as “PRefChem”. PETRONAS and Saudi Aramco had earlier in March 2018 concluded the Share Purchase Agreement for equal ownership and participation in the operations of the refinery, cracker and selected petrochemical facilities in the PIC. To mark the occasion, a ceremony was held at PIC which also saw the unveiling of PRefChem’s logo. Present were Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin, President & Group Chief Executive Officer of PETRONAS; Amin H Nasser, President & Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco; Datuk Md Arif Mahmood, Executive Vice President Downstream of PETRONAS, as well as Dr Colin Wong Hee Huing, who are respectively the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the two companies. Speaking at the event, Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee said: “This integrated partnership marks a visionary move by two professionally-run national oil companies where both are able to leverage on each other’s strengths and share technical capabilities as well as experiences for mutual benefit. I am proud that we are amongst the pioneer of national oil companies partnering with one another to ensure better positioning for both organisations in an increasingly competitive market.” “Most importantly, this partnership was built on a shared vision and shared values that align a number of priorities for both parties including – upholding the “amanah” or trust that both organisations have in contributing to our respective nations and its people,” he added. Amin Nasser stated, “Today marks an important milestone for this giga joint venture project, which is an integral part of Saudi Aramco’s refining and fuels marketing and chemicals business strategies and will help in strengthening the company’s growth position in Southeast Asia through crude supply and world-scale downstream operations. This venture also closely aligns with our downstream strategy to invest in a global refining and petrochemicals system of world-scale manufacturing complexes in key regions with participated refining capacity of eight to 10 million barrels per day by 2030. We are committed to help enhance the area’s prosperity and look forward to this new stage of cooperation with our valued partner PETRONAS. Malaysia provides a great opportunity for Saudi Aramco’s downstream portfolio expansion in Asia and PRefChem’s strategic location in Pengerang will clearly position the country as a prolific regional energy hub, at the same time serve to enhance energy security in the Asia-Pacific region.” At the event, PRefChem also celebrated a major milestone with the mechanical completion of Package 2 comprising the Crude Distillation Unit (CDU). The mechanical completion certificate was presented to Sun Lili, President of Sinopec Engineering, by Datuk Md Arif Mahmood, witnessed by Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee and Nasser. Commenting on the company’s visual identity, Dr Colin Wong said that the circular movement of the logo represents collaboration, precision and bonding between PETRONAS and Saudi Aramco, while the blue and green colours portray PRefChem as a vibrant, dynamic and environmentally friendly company. The refinery complex and cracker is now 96.54 per cent complete while the petrochemical facilities has achieved 84.8 per cent completion. Apart from the refinery, cracker and the petrochemical facilities, PIC also includes the development of associated facilities, namely a co-generation plant, an LNG re-gasification terminal, a raw water supply plant, a deep water terminal, and air separation unit, as well as centralised and shared utility facilities. 1* Subject to approval by The Companies Commission of Malaysia for the change of name from PRPC RC Sdn Bhd to Pengerang Refining Company Sdn Bhd.  *2 Subject to approval by The Companies Commission of Malaysia for the change of name from PRPC Polymers Sdn Bhd to Pengerang Petrochemical Company Sdn Bhd. Saudi Aramco participated today in the Eastern Province Chamber of Commerce symposium on the "4th Industrial Revolution and iktva support." The event highlighted the investment opportunities offered by the advent of the 4th Industrial Revolution and the role of small and medium enterprises (SMEs). The event, which was attended by investors and industrialists as well as representatives from the public and private sectors, was opened by Abdulhakeem Al Khalidi, EP Chamber president who welcomed Saudi Aramco participation, praising its support for such gatherings which provide an impetus for the economic and investment climate in the Eastern Province. Saudi Aramco's Manager for Industrial Development and Strategic Supply, Abdullah Al Thaali, thanked the EP Chamber of Commerce for providing a platform for the private sector and investors to learn about the 4th Industrial Revolution and the investment opportunities in this area. Al Thaali explained that Saudi Aramco's localization initiative iktva has acted as an incubator for localization investments, especially for small and medium enterprises. He said that since it was launched, iktva has achieved an average of 45% localization success rate, with local purchases of good reaching 50% in 2017, a record in the company's history. The event agenda included a presentation and round-table discussion on Saudi Aramco's iktva program and its role in support of the national economy through the localization and value addition of the local industry and technology sectors, as well as an explanation of the procedures for registration in the iktva program. The Fourth Industrial Revolution is characterized by a fusion of technologies that is blurring the lines between the physical, digital, and biological spheres. It is marked by emerging technology breakthroughs in a number of fields, including robotics, artificial intelligence, block chain, nanotechnology, quantum computing, biotechnology, the Internet of Things, 3D printing and autonomous vehicles.Sutherland, the process transformation company, Saudi Aramco, the national oil company of Saudi Arabia; and Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University (IAU), one of the largest higher education institutions in the Gulf region, today announced a partnership in which Sutherland will train local women and create a sustainable all-female professional development model for the region. The agreement signed today is in line with Vision 2030, Saudi Arabia’s national transformation program, whose economic diversification aims to include women’s workforce engagement, and increase female participation in the workforce from 22% to 30%. Ziad T. Murshed, Executive Director of New Business Development at Saudi Aramco noted that the partnership enhances Saudi Aramco’s commitment to a greater representation, engagement and empowerment of women in the Kingdom’s workforce, as well as its own ranks. He said: “Saudi women are the focus of several programs at our company geared to enhance their opportunities and maximize their much-needed contributions.” As part of this partnership, Sutherland plans to train more than 3,000 Saudi women through the company’s University Delivery Model and a remote ”work from home” model, both of which Sutherland has successfully implemented in several other countries. It also plans to build Centers of Excellence (COE) at IAU for multinational clients with interest in the Saudi Arabian market, as well as large Kingdom-based corporate and government organizations.Under the patronage of HRH Governor of the Eastern Province Prince Saud ibn Nayef ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, Saudi Aramco on Sunday launched an ambitious environmental stewardship initiative to plant 1 million trees native to Saudi Arabia throughout the Kingdom by 2025. The “Saudi Aramco Environmental Initiative for Planting One Million Trees” follows the company’s successful project of planting 2 million mangrove trees along the shores of the Arabian Gulf coast, which was completed in 2017, and is in keeping with Saudi Aramco’s ongoing effort toward nurturing the Kingdom’s biodiversity. These environmental stewardship efforts are also aligned with Saudi Vision 2030, as well as the United Nations conventions on conserving biodiversity.   The initiative will yield more than 20 million kilograms of carbon sequestration per year while also increasing shade and evapotranspiration, making the local areas cooler.     The beautification of the Saudi Arabia’s landscape, said Nasser, is an added benefit to the project.     Planting the native trees in strategic locations throughout the Kingdom will help to combat desertification, which essentially involves the movement of sand caused by loss of vegetation. Desertification happens due to several factors, including excessive harvesting of firewood, off-road driving, overgrazing, ineffective farming practices, and extended drought. It is considered one of the largest threats to sustainable development in the world today.     Trees, shrubs, and other plants play a vital role in stabilizing sand. Not only do tree roots help bind the sand together, but the plants themselves help to slow down the movement of wind over the landscape. Losing a large number of trees in desert areas can allow the wind to pick up loose sand and blow it into the air, creating large amounts of dust particles which can lead to sandstorms.     The Saudi Aramco initiative will utilize 26 species of native trees in harmony with the nature of Saudi Arabia. The native trees to be planted are adaptive to the challenges of surviving in the Kingdom’s environment, which includes low rainfall and highly saline soil and water.     Environmental experts have indicated that as much as 33% of all native plants and animals in the Kingdom are vulnerable to extinction, and one of the most important methods of restoring biodiversity is to plant native trees and bushes. These plants help to attract and enhance the survival rate of native animals.     Additionally, the native plants are considered culturally relevant to Saudi Arabia as the ancient Bedouin used many of the more than 2,500 species for food, medicine, cosmetics, and art for thousands of years, so the initiative is also helping to preserve this unique cultural heritage.     The native plants require less water than so-called “exotic” plant species, and the water that will be used for irrigation will be reclaimed wastewater. No groundwater will be used, thereby helping sustain the Kingdom’s precious groundwater resources.     In line with existing Saudi Aramco best irrigation practices, the company will continue to explore the most appropriate water-saving technologies for use in the initiative. One such technology is the use of polymers, which have been used in semi-arid areas to help reduce the amount of irrigation water required. The polymers are inserted into the soil near each plant to absorb and retain large amounts of water. The nearby plants are then able to tap into the stored water within the polymers. The feasibility and suitability of this, and other water-saving technologies, will be investigated over the course of this initiative.     Other benefits of the initiative include increasing surface and renewable water table levels by reducing temperatures, and the absorption of carbon dioxide to help decrease pollution.     The initiative represents another significant Saudi Aramco contribution toward enhancing sustainability, ecological balance, and biodiversity. In the past five years alone, the company has undertaken numerous large-scale biodiversity initiatives, including:Saudi Aramco has further expanded its In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program and strengthened its relationship with local industry players by awarding purchase agreements to 16 Saudi pressure vessels manufacturers. The agreements, carrying a procurement value of more than SR26 billion, further enhances the company’s ongoing support and commitment to empower local companies within the small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) realm under IKTVA, in tandem with Saudi Vision 2030. The purchase agreements, signed on May 1, will focus on the supply of pressure vessels by local manufacturers, mandated under IKTVA goals as well as to actively pursue Saudization targets. The 16 companies are expected to build up their capabilities and competitiveness throughout the 10 years agreement duration. The 16 companies are: Abdulaziz A. Al Abdulkarim, Saudi Aramco Vice President of Procurement and Supply Chain Management, commended the manufacturers for developing robust IKTVA action plans that will increase the number of Saudi jobs and avail more business in pressure vessels components to local SMEs. Al Abdulkarim set the expectations with the manufacturers to work closely with Saudi Aramco to increase the percentage of Saudization under these agreements at all levels and disciplines including engineers, welders and other professional skilled workers. “These agreements, set for 10 years, will expand the local industry’s capability and provide high quality supply of materials and services to Saudi Aramco. IKTVA is a cornerstone of Saudi Aramco’s procurement process which will expedite localization, promote locally-based SMEs and help economic diversification in support of Saudi Vision 2030. SMEs are the engine of innovation for economic growth and development. They have the agility, the know-how, the market expertise, and the products the oil and gas industry requires. That is why Saudi Aramco recognizes the huge potential of SMEs and we believe the companies chosen under this agreement will step up to the challenge and meet the required expectations,” he said. Pressure vessels represent an integral and critical equipment group for oil & gas processing facilities that require sophisticated manufacturing capabilities and labor skills. Saudi Aramco is also extending the IKTVA requirements to the procurement of other strategic materials such as drilling equipment, process automation systems, line pipes, pumps and valves.The 50th annual Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) in Houston brought together innovators seeking to push the boundaries of offshore oil and gas exploration. As a corporate sponsor, Saudi Aramco contributed in many ways by sharing technical advances and breakthrough research and development addressing the industry’s most pressing challenges.   Representatives from Saudi Aramco and its U.S. subsidiary, Aramco Services Company (ASC), presented papers during the OTC Technical Program. Topics included material advancement, cost-effective chemical solutions for sustainable production, and nanotechnology innovations for offshore drilling.     Researchers from the Aramco Research Center-Houston offered a look at advances in production technology, detailing projects and initiatives at the exhibition booth that captured the attention of attendees and reinforced the company’s leadership reputation in Upstream exploration and production.      “Having our research featured within the technical program was rewarding and illustrated the progress we have made at the Houston Center,” said Ashraf AlTahini, ASC R&D director.      Outside of Saudi Arabia, Houston is home to Aramco’s largest R&D facility focused on Upstream. Some of the fast-track technology and research advances made with colleagues in Dhahran and throughout Aramco’s global R&D network are now deployed, or in field trials, in Saudi Arabia.      The conference, one of the world’s largest energy expositions, has come a long way since its inception in 1969 when 2,797 people participated. This year’s theme “Going the Distance” illustrated resilience and adaptability as deep-water offshore looks toward recovery with new field development and long-awaited projects authorized in the Gulf of Mexico.   One of the highlights of the Offshore Technology Conference was the Shallow Water Inspection and Monitoring Robot (SWIM-R), a technology developed in-house by Saudi Aramco. Showcased during the event to demonstrate how the remote operated vehicle (ROV) can be operated wirelessly in shallow waters up to 10 meters deep, SWIM-R enhances pipeline inspection speed and efficiency while minimizing safety hazards.   Saudi Aramco is working with the Research Products Development Company (RPDC) — which is in turn collaborating with Teledyne, a leading manufacturer of inspection ROVs — to commercialize SWIM-R.     RPDC was established as a development and commercialization engine by the Saudi Arabia Advanced Research Alliance (SAARA). Saudi Aramco is one of the founding members of this alliance between leading organizations in both the public and private sectors. Other strategic partners include King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, TAQNIA (The Saudi Technology Development and Investment Company), and King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals.  SWIM-R sets another first     A first success under this new agreement is the awarding of a development contract, which will integrate a unique sensor design developed by Saudi Aramco into an ROV. Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Saudi Aramco’s chief technology officer, said: “We are excited about collaborating with Teledyne SeaBotix in developing an advanced technology that will address the challenges posed by shallow water pipeline inspection monitoring. The technology will substantially reduce underwater infrastructure inspection costs.”      The integrated sensor can perform ultrasonic thickness readings and cathodic protection voltage measurements at a single touchdown, thereby reducing inspection costs for shallow water pipelines, minimizing inspection safety hazards, and enabling the inspection of hard-to-reach sections.      These advancements were first developed by members of the Network Integrity Team within the Research and Development Center (R&DC). Collaboration with Teledyne has provided improvements in reliability and opportunities for global commercialization of these capabilities on an inspection-class ROV.  Saudi Aramco organized today the 2018 Contractors’ Exchange Conference under the theme “Deploying Technology for Effective Project Execution,” which hosted more than 400 project management professionals and executives from local and regional contracting companies.    The event aims to strengthen the company’s partnerships with construction contractors and create a platform to enhance communication between technology providers to meet the challenges faced by the industry. Key speakers from Saudi Aramco and the Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) industry shared their views and experiences on the theme of technology and the positive impact on project execution. The event included presentations, panel discussions, and an exhibition by several technology providers.     Speaking at the plenary session, Motaz A. Al Mashouk, Saudi Aramco General Manager for Project Management said: “In this year’s Contractor Exchange Forum we are focusing on emerging technologies in project and construction execution. It presents an opportunity for our local industry to rapidly advance its competitiveness and capabilities. These advances will help transform the in-Kingdom construction industry, providing increased highly skilled career paths for Saudi citizens.”     The strategic contracting model that Saudi Aramco adopts represents a continuation of efforts to support the Kingdom’s development. Saudi Aramco's strategy to support the construction sector is not only intended to meet the needs of the company's business at present and in the future, but also reflects its keenness to embody the concept of citizenship in fulfillment of Vision 2030.  Staff members from the Aramco Research Center-Detroit and Dhahran recently participated in the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) International World Congress and Exhibition in Detroit. Their contributions to the technical sessions illustrated Aramco’s advances with engine and fuels research and technology.   This was the fifth year for Aramco to join the automotive industry’s leading technical conference. It is an interesting time in the automotive industry, and while electrification of vehicles represents a breakthrough in generating power, gasoline and gasoline-like fuels remain a significant power source for internal combustion engines.     Aramco debuted a Ford F-150 prototype truck projected to achieve 37 miles per gallon using gasoline compression ignition technology earlier this year in Detroit at the North American International Auto Show, and it was positively received by both industry and the consumer.     Aramco plays a unique role in offering solutions that can have an immediate impact on fuel efficiency and reducing the carbon footprint. The technical papers presented during SAE underscore Aramco’s experience and commitment to this initiative.     The papers also demonstrate Aramco’s collaboration and engagement with major original equipment manufacturers, National Laboratories, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology Clean Combustion Research Center, and other academia to bring forth innovative engine and fuel solutions.     The researchers from Detroit work in collaboration with researchers from other locations within the company’s global network, including Paris, at the Aramco Fuel Research Center located at IFP Energies nouvelles and Dhahran.     This year, Aramco served as a sponsor for the High Efficiency IC Engine Symposium, held just prior to SAE. Aramco continues its top-tier “Creating the Future” sponsorship with the Michigan Technological University (MTU) Advanced Motorsports Enterprise featuring different types of competition vehicles.     Detroit researchers chaired and co-chaired sessions on such topics as “Advances in Particulate Filter Substrates,” “Multidimensional Engine Modeling,” and “Abnormal SI Combustion.” H.E. Khalid A. Al Falih, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saudi Aramco, has announced the appointment of five new members to the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors.  The five new appointed members are: The five new members to the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors will join six returning members. The outgoing Board members are H.E. Dr. Majid Al-Moneef, Advisor to the Royal Court; H.E. Dr. Khaled S. Al-Sultan, Rector of King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals; and, Mr. Peter Woicke, former Managing Director of the World Bank and former Vice President of the International Finance Corporation. H.E. Al-Falih expressed his deepest thanks and gratitude to the outgoing Board members for their dedication and invaluable contribution.  In a second significant step toward the implementation of Saudi Aramco and SABIC’s fully-integrated crude oil-to-chemicals (COTC) complex in Saudi Arabia, the two partners have awarded a contract to KBR, a leading global provider of project management, and professional & engineering services in the petrochemicals industry, for the COTC project management and front-end engineering and design (FEED).    The award of this contract follows the signing of an MoU in November of 2017 between Saudi Aramco and SABIC to assist in bringing the giga-project to its next stage of development.&nbsp; The contract primarily covers finalization of the project scope, selection of technology providers, update on project economics, and performance of front-end engineering and design.    Commenting on this new milestone, Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “We are effectively moving forward with the implementation of our strategies and plans towards further integration and value creation. The award of this second project management contract to KBR not only strengthens the project with additional world-class experience, but is yet another milestone in the Kingdom’s continuous drive to redirect and optimize its abundant natural resources and maximize its chemicals yield.”&nbsp; “With the addition of KBR to the project, Saudi Aramco and SABIC are confident that the right parties are now in place to see the project through its initial phases and the inclusion of a high proportion of local content,” Nasser added.   Yousef Al-Benyan, SABIC Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive Officer said: “This contract award to KBR is a major advance by the two leading industrial companies in Saudi Arabia – SABIC and Saudi Aramco – towards establishing a large petrochemical facility in support of Saudi Arabia’s vision of creating job opportunities, initiating new industrial technologies, and diversifying the product portfolio.&nbsp; The acceleration of the project’s milestones signifies the determination of the joint venture partners to achieve the project objectives along with Saudi Arabia’s vision of economic diversification, to which this project is a significant contributor.”   By 2030, the COTC complex is expected to be a significant contributor to Saudi Arabia’s GDP and play a key role in helping the continued economic transformation away from crude exports to higher-value industrial products, further stimulating the Kingdom’s economic diversification, as enunciated in Vision 2030. Asalam Alaikum and good morning: Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen It is a privilege to be working with the Pearl Initiative in promoting higher corporate governance standards – something for which there is a clear regional need. Today, I will speak about Saudi Aramco’s governance journey. I should also note – upfront – that we recognize it is a journey and one that continues to evolve with time. We know we can always improve on our corporate governance practices and their execution. That said, to give you a better understanding of where we are heading, let me begin by talking about where we have come from and where we are now. Saudi Aramco has been global from our very beginning – more than eight decades ago. International standards of governance have always been an integral part of what we do and how we do things. Our approach to corporate governance has continued to evolve – as we have gone from several shareholders before 1980 to just one, currently. While our deep-rooted history has provided us with strong foundations for organizational structure, processes and guidelines, we have also been guided by international practices. Throughout our history we have also been consistently engaged in benchmarking our performance to maintain and strengthen our industry leadership position. For example, even though we are not subject to the same requirements as a listed company, our accounts are prepared in accordance with IFRS standards – something we have been doing since 2005. We also produce a publicly available Annual Review on company operations and achievements. As for our Board, I am the only working Saudi Aramco executive on the Board – along with His Excellency, the Chairman. The robustness of our Board is further enhanced by the presence of three non-Saudi directors – all previous leaders of global energy or finance organizations. We also maintain independent auditing practices, which provides us with robust reviews of our operations. Our Board Audit Committee oversees the reliability of our accounting and reporting as well as the integrity of our financial statements. We also have an Ethics Committee. We firmly believe in holding ourselves to the highest ethical standards. Everything we do is anchored in our five corporate values: Excellence, Safety, Accountability, Integrity, and Citizenship. Just on safety: we have a strong safety culture and an open safety reporting system, which is a vital part of healthy corporate governance – particularly in the energy industry. A number of years ago, we also introduced an Enterprise Risk Management System to identify and mitigate key corporate risks. In terms of accountability, we again have a world-class system in place. As CEO, I have at my fingertips a real-time dashboard showing corporate KPIs. This enables me to readily see the ‘health’ of our business. Think of it as the equivalent of monitoring your own wellbeing by being permanently hooked up to an E-K-G machine while also undergoing a continuous C-T scan. Just to be clear: the creation of shareholder value has been and will continue to be important at Saudi Aramco. However, our focus does not end there. It extends to customers, suppliers, the community, and of course also to employees. As for our employees, it is worth pointing out that at Saudi Aramco, people are recognized and rewarded for doing what is right. Individuals can freely express their views to senior management. To help protect the environment and combat climate change, we also maintain one of the strongest programs in our industry. We are constantly seeking ways to further reduce our carbon footprint. For example, Saudi Aramco recently signed an agreement to test a new technology that potentially converts up more than two-thirds of a barrel of crude oil directly into petrochemicals. This has the potential to lower costs and create new markets. It also has positive implications for future non-combustible uses for oil. Water conservation is another high priority. We put a value on water a long time ago. As a result, our people strive to minimize groundwater usage and maximize the reuse of wastewater. In fact, we have one of the highest reuse rates in the region for industrial and sanitary wastewater.
 Localization is also an important initiative. Through our iktva program, Saudi Aramco is working to significantly increase the amount of goods and services we procure domestically – up to 70 percent by 2021. Beyond improving our supply-chain reliability, we expect this will help further industrialize the Kingdom, diversify the domestic economy and create jobs. On a related note, we also have a code of conduct for our supply chain. We expect no less of our suppliers than of our own employees. Citizenship is another key community priority for us. In line with Vision 2030, we are promoting entrepreneurship and job-rich small-to-medium enterprises. Indeed, we firmly believe taking this multi-stakeholder approach is essential to our sustained success. That all said, I should pause to emphasize a key point… Even though Saudi Aramco has well-developed corporate governance practices, we have absolutely no intention of standing still. All of which brings me to where Saudi Aramco goes from here… Going forward, one challenge for us – for that matter, a challenge for all companies – is maintaining the right balance of control, compliance and performance. For a company like Saudi Aramco, it is critical that corporate governance structures do not become top heavy. If the chain of command and control becomes too long for a large organization like ours, the business will become sluggish, less innovative and resistant to change. However, it is important to note: size doesn’t matter. Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises as well as family-owned firms can also benefit from practicing good corporate governance. Indeed, key principles such as following the law, ethical conduct, sound accounting practices, and protecting one’s investments are as important to smaller firms as they are to bigger companies. In fact, perhaps even more important. After all, smaller companies face a unique set of challenges during down cycles. In addition, smaller companies cannot typically afford elaborate governance monitoring systems. Ultimately, good governance provides a foundation for better, sustainable performance and also an enhanced reputation for any company, of any size. Good governance is about values – starting with the individual – through to teams – and ultimately across the entire enterprise. Which of course means the actions of one individual can have a huge impact on a company’s reputation, performance and bottom-line. And as many of you already know: it takes a long time to build a good reputation, but only a few minutes to lose one. Ladies and Gentlemen, at Saudi Aramco we have seen firsthand the benefits of good governance. Saudi Aramco is has always focused on financial and operational efficiency. But like all companies, we also know that we are not perfect. As I said at the beginning, we realize we can further improve on both our governance practices and their execution. We also recognize that it is our broader responsibility to help others, especially in the Kingdom. That is why we are pleased to co-host this important Forum with the Pearl Initiative. To help show why good governance is key for every company that wants to thrive during this dynamic time. It is also why Saudi Aramco will continue to strive to raise the bar even higher for ourselves in the years and the decades to come. Aramco Performance Materials (APM) returned this year to North America’s Foam Expo in March with market-ready carbon dioxide (CO2) polyols. Since its public debut last year, APM has attracted significant interest from major U.S. and global polyurethane manufacturers, as well as fabricators and end-users looking for strong product performance with improved sustainability features. Polyols are not new. However, these are not conventional polyols. APM has been able to differentiate itself in the marketplace by creating them in an entirely new way. APM uses a proprietary catalyst that takes waste CO2 as a main feedstock and combines it with propylene oxide to create a poly (propylene carbonate) polyol — a high performance polyurethane building block with a reduced carbon footprint. During the opening day of the conference, APM president Peter Shepard updated attendees on Converge® technology and product advances in a panel discussion titled “Evaluating Developments in the Polycarbonate (CO2) Polyols Market for the Polyurethane Industry.” Shepard said CO2 feedstock is a trend that will become common practice. “Consumers are demanding that sustainable materials be incorporated into end-products,” said Shepard. “Industry is responding by turning waste CO2 into profitable, commercially viable opportunities — not only in polymers and polyols, but in chemicals, as well as other sectors such as fuels.” Panelists discussed topics such as market trends and the impact on the polyurethane foam industry, how regulations can promote the adoption of this technology, and the next steps in innovations incorporating sustainable CO2-based polyols. Abdullah AlYahya, APM Commercial director, described Foam Expo as a great platform to showcase Converge® technology. “We had steady traffic from current and potential customers in a variety of market segments such as automotive and furniture, and they all had one common goal — enhanced performance,” said AlYahya. A dinner event with potential customers highlighted the performance advantages of Converge® products in flexible and rigid foams. The event provided a great opportunity to hear directly from customers and understand the limitations they face today when using conventional polyols. AlYahya said customers are searching for solutions to their unmet needs and are viewing Converge® technology as a unique solution and a way to differentiate their products in the future.  Exhibition visitors learned about advances APM has made in furthering product performance characteristics such as load bearing strength, reduced noise vibration, and harshness in a number of different foam applications. In the past year, APM has also been supporting new specialized applications for customers and refining its Converge® manufacturing processes. Michael Nagridge, the APM Global Technical Services manager who focuses on bringing the technology to many applications and assisting customers developing new Converge® applications, brought foam samples recently produced in commercial scale customer trials. These samples demonstrated the durability, cushioning, and/or isolation from noise and vibration benefits Converge® technology brings to end-products in the foam industry. APM has made advances in validating its products with customers in a number of applications, including flexible foam, rigid insulation foam for construction, industrial use, and appliances, as well as for coatings, adhesives, sealants, and elastomers. This second year of the conference doubled in size, with more than 3,000 people attending and Aramco generating more than 150 new customer leads. Aramco served as one of the conference sponsors, heightening its visibility in the conference program and mobile app. Converge® illustrates Aramco’s continued commitment to chemicals innovation and expanding beyond commodity-based chemicals to value-added products and chemistry. Saudi Aramco co-hosted the “Governance in Focus” forum with the Pearl Initiative at the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center (KAPSARC) in Riyadh, under the patronage of His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources. Addressing an audience of business leaders, executives, officials and experts, Amin Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco said: “It is a privilege to be working with the Pearl Initiative in promoting higher corporate governance standards. Saudi Aramco has been global from our very beginning – more than eight decades ago. International standards of governance have always been an integral part of what we do and how we do things. In our efforts to achieve Saudi Vision 2030 and align ourselves with its aspirations, the Kingdom’s corporations and entities - regardless of size, now have the opportunity to apply or redefine its set of governance at the highest standards, which is vital for the economic transformation that’s currently underway in the Kingdom.” Nasser emphasized the role of corporate governance in maintaining the highest standards of ethical conduct and promoting commitment to effective oversight, leadership, and reporting. Badr Jafar, Founder of the Pearl Initiative and CEO of Crescent Enterprises, said: “The Governance in Focus forum has brought together multi-stakeholder leaders from across the region and internationally to deliberate some of the most pertinent issues affecting our business environment today. We at the Pearl Initiative are deeply honored to work with Saudi Aramco to shine a light on the various important roles that the government, business and philanthropic sectors need to play in creating corporate governance frameworks that support the competitiveness, inclusiveness and sustainability of our region’s economies. The forum marks the beginning of the Pearl Initiative’s strategic relationship with Saudi Aramco, an invaluable member of our growing network of partner companies from across the gulf region committed to a vision of thriving economies underpinned by a Private Sector that embraces good governance as a pillar of sustainable growth”. Saudi Aramco goes above and beyond to fulfill its commitment to its corporate values through corporate governance structures that involves the company’s board and leadership team, independent reporting and performance management, and compliance with voluntary and compulsory regulatory standards. From the diverse experience of Saudi Aramco’s board members to its regular reporting and independent auditing practices, the company’s structured governance process ensures transparency, effective oversight and accountability at all levels of operation. The forum’s theme was ‘Boosting Competitiveness in a New Business Paradigm’ and featured prominent speakers, including His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources; Amin Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco; and Badr Jafar, CEO of Crescent Enterprises and Founder of the Pearl Initiative. In addition to speeches, the event featured a number of panel discussions and workshops conducted by high-profile experts. The forum focused on the business case behind corporate governance and how good governance frameworks support the rapidly developing private sector in the Gulf Cooperation Council region and the overall economic goals. The Pearl Initiative was formed by prominent business leaders from across the GCC in 2010 to create a non-profit vehicle for the private sector to collectively take a lead in adopting higher standards in corporate governance, accountability and transparency. It seeks joint collaborative action among regional and global business leaders, international institutions, government bodies and wider initiatives within the GCC region, exhibiting positive leadership and sharing knowledge and experience in order to influence the entire regional business and student community. Saudi  Aramco is participating as  a Diamond Sponsor and exhibitor in the Society of Petroleum Engineers  KSA section’s Annual Technical Symposium & Exhibition (ATS&E).  The event is taking place at&nbsp; the Dhahran Expo exhibition center from April 23-26,  with the theme of “where energy meets intelligence”  and will include a range of exhibitors, lectures, panel discussions and  workshops in the field of petroleum engineering. The 2018 event is set  to welcome more than 5,000 delegates, including international visitors  and presenters. In addition to many subject  matter experts from Saudi Aramco, Mohammed Al-Qahtani, Senior Vice  President of Saudi Aramco – Upstream, is attending the ATS&E, and  delivered a keynote speech at the opening ceremony on the evening of  April 23. Commenting  on the company’s participation, Al-Qahtani said, “I am pleased to see  this annual event continuously gaining momentum and attention  here in the Kingdom. Saudi Aramco’s participation in this high-level  symposium is part of the company’s efforts to promote and foster  collaboration and knowledge-sharing among professionals in our industry.  With its global reach, the SPE is truly helping to  shape the industry’s future, and events such as the ATS&E are at  the heart of how we can work together to achieve success.” The  Society of Petroleum Engineers International recently elected Dr. Sami  Al-Neaim, Manager of Saudi Aramco’s Petroleum Engineering Application  Services Department, as the 2019 SPE President-elect. In addition, the  Society has honored a number of Saudi Aramco professionals with SPE  International Awards, including, in 2017, the SPE Distinguished Lifetime  Achievement Award presented to Amin Nasser,  President and CEO of Saudi Aramco.As an element in promoting diversity and inclusion, the Exploration and Petroleum Engineering Center (EXPEC) Advanced Research Center (ARC) established the Women at EXPEC ARC Network (WEN) in 2017 to focus on the development of women within the department. WEN complements women empowerment by enabling them to push past boundaries and excel in their careers as engineers, scientists, researchers, and administrators.    In collaboration with the Women Development and Diversity Division (WD&DD), activities were developed and tailored to EXPEC ARC’s unique fabric and aligned with the WD&DD corporate program, resulting in a more adaptive and inclusive atmosphere at EXPEC ARC.      WEN members are also keen on transferring their knowledge of technology innovation in the oil and gas industry and their career experiences to high school students to raise awareness and share with them information about petroleum engineering and geoscience disciplines.     EXPEC ARC’s young female professionals have also been participating in department level activities — especially those that involve higher management presence to sharpen their strategic thinking skills. Women are assuming different roles in the governing bodies meetings of EXPEC ARC, including the Technology Council, the Steering Committee, and the International Advisory Council. President & CEO Amin H. Nasser: “Investing in India is a key part of Saudi Aramco’s global downstream strategy, and another milestone in our growing relationship with India.” Saudi Aramco signed today a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with “Ratnagiri Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd.” (RRPCL), a consortium of Indian oil companies which includes The Indian Oil Corporation Ltd. (IOCl), Bharat Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (BPCL), and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (HPCL), to jointly develop and build an integrated mega refinery and petrochemicals complex at Ratnagiri, in the state of Maharashtra. Saudi Aramco may also seek to include a strategic partner to co-invest in the mega refinery. The strategic partnership brings together crude supply, resources, technologies, experience, and expertise of these multiple oil companies with an established commercial presence around the world. A pre-feasibility study for the refinery has been completed and the parties are now finalizing the project’s overall configuration. Following the signing of the MOU, the parties will extend their collaboration to discuss the formation of a joint venture that would provide for joint ownership, control, and management of the project. The refinery will be capable of processing 1.2 million barrels of crude oil per day. It will produce a range of refined petroleum products, including gasoline and diesel, meeting BS-VI fuel efficiency norms. The refinery will also provide feedstock for the integrated petrochemical complex, which will be capable of producing approximately 18 million tons per annum of petrochemical production. In addition to the refinery, cracker and downstream petrochemical facilities, the project will include associated facilities such as a logistics, crude oil and product storage terminals, raw water supply, as well as centralized and shared utilities. Ratnagiri Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd. (RRPCL) will rank among the largest world refining and petrochemicals projects and will be designed to meet India’s fast-growing fuels and petrochemicals demand. The project cost is estimated at around $44 billion. “Investing in India is a key part of our company’s global downstream strategy, and another milestone in our growing relationship with India,” said Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser, who also noted the opening in 2017 of Aramco Asia’s New Delhi office with a mandate to expand Saudi Aramco’s international portfolio in this key economic growth region. “The signing marks a significant development in India’s oil and gas sector, enabling a strategic joint venture and investment partnership that will serve India’s fast-growing demand for transportation fuels and chemical products. Participating in this mega project will allow Saudi Aramco to go beyond our crude oil supplier role to a fully integrated position that may help usher in other areas of collaboration, such as refining, marketing, and petrochemicals for India’s future energy demands,” said Nasser. Saudi Aramco participates as sponsor of the 12th National Forum for Geographic Information Systems (GIS) and exhibition organized by Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University in Dammam. The three-day forum, which took place on 10-12 April 2018, was held under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud bin Nayef bin Abdulaziz, Governor of the Eastern Province. The forum titled “Geographical Information Systems in the service of the Public Sector and Society” provided a platform to showcase and discuss state-of-the-art geographical technology applications in health, environment, security and real estate. The forum was attended by prominent local and international figures, including researchers and specialists as well as students and private and governmental bodies associated with geographical information systems. “Saudi Aramco continues its efforts in adopting and developing the latest technologies in geographical information systems, in addition to strengthening our relations and collaborations with associations and experts in the industry,” said Fahad E. Al Helal, Vice President of Project Management at Saudi Aramco. Al Helal emphasized the importance of measurement and geographical information systems when running critical projects across the Kingdom. He also noted the need for investments to ensure the continuous development of these systems, given the important role they play in Saudi Aramco’s expanding operations. “Geographical information systems allow us to further enhance our upstream operations, safety procedures, project management, our detection and monitoring capabilities, and the preservation of our wide-ranging assets,” Al Helal said. Al Helal said that such specialized events in the Kingdom offer a variety of opportunities and areas for investment and cooperation, which contribute to the IKTVA corporate objective of localization of industries, increasing the local content, and providing work and training opportunities for the young men and women of the Kingdom in various fields. In addition to sponsoring the event, Saudi Aramco also participated in the forum’s exhibit with a pavilion displaying the Company’s GIS maps and applications. The forum provided access to the latest technological developments and their scientific and practical applications. The goals of the forum aligned with the Kingdom’s efforts to localize this industry and implement essential development projects and programs that employ and invest in geographical technologies to provide investment opportunities for the public and private sectors. Saudi Aramco today participated in the Saudi-France CEO Forum held in Paris to promote bilateral business and cooperation between the two countries. The Forum was scheduled to coincide with the official visit to France by HRH Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. During the Forum a number of cooperation arrangements and prospective commercial collaborations were signed and discussed with French counterparties as well as Saudi partners. Speaking today at the Forum, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “Saudi Aramco has a massive and highly ambitious investment program over the next decade which is part of our portfolio expansion aspiration. This includes a number of mega world scale projects where French businesses can play a major role in providing the strategic mix of technical capabilities and innovation which would create the desired synergy which will be beneficial to the company but also to the Kingdom. With Vision 2030, I believe there are more opportunities for collaboration and partnerships, not only in the oil and gas sector but also in infrastructure, manufacturing and services industries which are critical to manage and operate an enterprise like Saudi Aramco.” The commercial collaborations discussed at the Forum today included: Following today’s signing ceremonies, Mr. Nasser said, “Today, we are further expanding our relationship with agreements and MOUs with leading French companies and organizations to support Saudi Aramco’s long business growth strategy. “At Saudi Aramco we have real, tangible and meaningful opportunities to collaborate and build partnerships now and in the future. The strengths of French businesses and industry can play a role in Saudi Aramco’ business plan including in our diversification and expansion strategies underscored by the framework of Vision 2030.” During the official visit to Paris by Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, HRH Mohammed bin Salman, Saudi Aramco and Total signed a memorandum of understanding to build a giant petrochemical complex in Jubail, Saudi Arabia. The complex will be integrated downstream of the SATORP refinery, a joint venture between Saudi Aramco (62,5%) and Total (37,5%) in Jubail, in a move designed to fully exploit operational synergies. This world-class refinery, whose capacity increased from 400,000-barrel-per-day at its start-up in 2014 to 440,000-barrel-per-day today, is recognized as being one of the most efficient in the world. Located next to the SATORP refinery in the same industrial area, the complex will comprise a world-size mixed-feed steam cracker (50% ethane and refinery off-gas) with a capacity of 1.5 million tons per year of ethylene and related high-added-value petrochemical units. The project will represent an investment of around $5&nbsp;billion. The two partners are planning to start the front-end engineering and design (FEED) in the third quarter of 2018. The cracker will feed other petrochemical and specialty chemical plants representing an overall amount of $4 billion investment by third party investors. In total, $9 billion will be invested, creating 8,000 local direct and indirect jobs. The project will produce more than 2.7 million metric tons of high value chemicals. “The agreement deepens the exemplary relationship enjoyed by our two companies over many decades. It is one that has evolved from a standard buyer-seller arrangement to one imbued with common interests to further develop and diversify our businesses,“ commented Amin H. Nasser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco. “Our joint venture SATORP is a remarkably successful model of industry partnership and we are keen to build on this success to further underpin Saudi Aramco’s strategy to expand its capacity in the chemicals sector by 2030.” “This project illustrates our strategy of maximizing the integration of our large refining and petrochemical platforms and of expanding our petrochemical operations from low-cost feedstock, to take advantage of the fast growing Asian polymer market," commented Patrick Pouyanné, Chairman and CEO of Total. “Furthermore, this project will enable us to strengthen our ties with Saudi Aramco, with whom we successfully operate our biggest and most efficient refinery in the world. Finally, it will contribute to the Vision 2030 of the Kingdom by creating 8,000 jobs and bringing in new high-added-value technologies.” Motiva Enterprises LLC, a wholly-owned downstream oil and gas subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, today signed MoUs worth between $8 billion to $10 billion with U.S. companies Honeywell UOP LLC and TechnipFMC plc, in a ceremony in Houston timed to coincide with the official visit to the United States by HRH Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman of Saudi Arabia. One of the MOUs signed today paves the way to evaluate the use of TechnipFMC plc’s world scale mixed-feed ethylene production technologies in the U.S. The second MOU enables Motiva to examine the use of UOP LLC’s world scale aromatics extraction and production technologies for benzene and paraxylene for development of a potential complex along the U.S. Gulf Coast.  The MOUs are a first step in Motiva’s expansion into petrochemicals. Final investment decisions on these projects are not expected to be made until 2019 and are dependent on strong economics, competitive incentives, and regulatory support. Commenting on the Crown Prince’s visit to Houston, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser said, “For more than 85 years the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the United States have enjoyed a mutually beneficial relationship based upon the strong legacy and longstanding foundation established by the leaders of both nations. The presence of Crown Prince HRH Mohammed Bin Salman today further advances that proud heritage, bolstering Saudi Aramco’s presence and partnerships with top American companies in the energy hub of Houston.” “We are especially honored for His Royal Highness to witness the signing of MoUs and announcements that further strengthens Aramco’s commitment to supporting U.S. economic growth and development through Downstream investments while also significantly investing in exploration and production technologies and innovative solutions aligned with Saudi Vision 2030 that will serve both our nations over the long term,” he added. The Crown Prince’s visit to Houston included a number of engagements and activities driven by Saudi Aramco, such as a tour of the company’s Houston R&D Center where he was briefed on the latest Upstream technology and innovation focusing on discovery and recovery of conventional and unconventional resources. It is the company’s largest research center outside Saudi Arabia. He also visited areas affected by Hurricane Harvey which have been rebuilt as a result of Saudi Aramco U.S. subsidiary Aramco Services Company’s contribution under the Houston Habitat for Humanity initiative. Aramco and Saudi student volunteers embraced Houston Habitat for Humanity to assist those who lost their homes in the flood, eaming up to remove flood-soaked drywall, cabinetry and appliances in one of the Habitat neighborhoods, which saw 100 homes sustain major damage. he company's in-kind donation of building materials and other supplies supported clean-up efforts. The Crown Prince also attended a special gathering of Saudi Aramco’s annuitants, as a tribute to their service which is testimony of the long-standing historical ties between the company and the United States.Saudi Aramco’s EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) won three out of five awards at the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (ADIPEC). The awards recognize leading initiatives, projects, and technologies that have displayed excellence on a global scale. EXPEC ARC garnered first place in the categories of technological innovation, digital transformation, and personal achievement. The world’s slimmest, most compact hydraulic tractor project was awarded first place in the Best Technological Innovation and Research Project of the Year category. The hydraulic tractor enables engineers to inject stimulation chemicals deep into the extended reach wells; more stimulation means more oil production. This new generation of strong tractors is a major breakthrough with global implications in small diameter extended reach wells that will eliminate the need for costly and time-consuming rigs. With a 2.125 inch outer diameter and 20 feet in length, the tractor is the world’s slimmest, most compact coil tubing (CT) tractor and a key enabler for intervention in horizontal extended reach open hole wells that have small internal diameters. The tractor does not require electrical power to operate and is run by hydraulic power generated by water, which is injected through the CT. It is also cost-effective and rigless. The tools are modified to enable the pulling of logging tools deeper into areas that were otherwise inaccessible. This new technology provides significant impact in supporting Upstream business goals of ensuring operations are cost-effective, as well as maximizing production from extended reach wells. “One major aspect of this technology is how it is uniquely designed to go smoothly through the smallest restrictions, then expand downhole to much bigger diameters and provide reliable and safe, powerful performance in cased and open holes,” said Abubaker S. Saeed, petroleum engineer and Slim Tractor project lead. The hydraulic tractor was jointly developed by EXPEC ARC and Western Well Tools, and recently trial tested with the support of Northern Area Production Engineering and the Well Services and Northern Reservoir Management departments. The technology was recently tested in five wells and successfully resulted in increasing production many times over. The Kingdom’s first intelligent carbon dioxide (CO2) enhanced oil recovery (EOR) and sequestration demonstration project took first place in the Best Digital Transformation Project category. The demonstration project, led by EXPEC ARC’s Reservoir Engineering Technology Division in collaboration with Petroleum Engineering and Development, Southern Area Oil Operations, and Hawiyah NGL Recovery Plant Department, tests the feasibility of sequestering CO2 through EOR, a win-win approach and strategic project for the company. The demonstration project is uniquely designed as an intelligent field project. The entire infrastructure — CO2 capture plant, pipelines, injection manifold, injector, producer and observation wells, wellheads, fluid handling facility, etc. — is fully instrumented to provide real-time data for monitoring and surveillance purposes. The project’s high-tech communication system allows reservoir engineers to capture and leverage sensor-based data across the whole spectrum to monitor and control the project’s performance in real-time, improve efficiency, sustainability, quality, and safety. “The carbon capture sequestration project is a first-of-its-kind project in the Middle East — not only in terms of scale and operation, but also as a transformative digital project,” said Sunil L. Kokal, principal professional and project lead. The underground sequestration of CO2, a greenhouse gas, is the major focus of this project. It is injecting about 2,000 tons of CO2 every day, equivalent to about 170,000 cars being taken off the road annually. The project is another example of Saudi Aramco’s long history of environmental stewardship and leadership. Sarah F. Alsaif, a petroleum engineer with the EXPEC ARC Reservoir Engineering Technology Division, was awarded the Young ADIPEC Engineer Award. Alsaif has a B.S. degree in petroleum engineering with special distinction from the University of Oklahoma, and an M.S. degree in petroleum engineering from Stanford University. With a solid foundation in petroleum engineering, Alsaif’s research area focuses on reservoir monitoring, reservoir simulation, and uncertainty quantification. She works on uncertainty quantification workflow development and deployment to interpret electromagnetic surveys for fluid saturation mapping involving reservoir modeling and simulation. Also, her work on uncertainty quantification has resulted in eight technical publications at different local and international conferences. “Winning the Young ADIPEC Engineer Award is a great testament to the hard work and passion of the youth at Saudi Aramco,” Alsaif says. “It is an honor to be recognized among successful, accomplished young engineers in the region.” Alsaif is a member of the Women Development and Diversity Advisory Board of Saudi Aramco that supports attracting, retaining, and developing women in the workforce, in addition to supporting a diverse and inclusive workforce overall. She is also a champion of the Women at EXPEC ARC Network, which ensures female employees have access to equal opportunities as men and are empowered to achieve their goals. She is an active member of the department’s Young Researchers Program, dedicated to developing young engineers to become industry leaders in their area of expertise. Alsaif advises young engineers to be open to new ideas and push themselves to step outside their comfort zone. “Being selected as winners of three major award categories at ADIPEC is definitely an honor and also supports our vision that includes becoming globally renowned for invention and innovation,” said Ali A. Al-Meshari, EXPEC ARC manager. “Such recognition of leading research and milestones undertaken in these three categories illustrates how EXPEC ARC is advancing Saudi Aramco’s success in optimizing production and recovery, and preparing our next generation to develop further efficiencies for the company.”Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS), the national oil company of Malaysia, and Saudi Aramco, the national oil company of Saudi Arabia, are pleased to announce the formation of two joint ventures for the Refinery and Petrochemical Integrated Development (RAPID) project. The strategic alliance is a historic partnership between two of the largest and most successful national oil companies in the world, bringing together the resources, technologies, experience as well as expertise of two national oil companies with established commercial presence around the world. These Joint Ventures allow the parties equal ownership and participation in the operations of the new refinery and selected petrochemical facility, which is part of the Refinery and Petrochemicals Development (RAPID) project within Pengerang Integrated Complex (PIC) in Malaysia’s southern state of Johor. Through this collaboration, Saudi Aramco will supply 50 percent of the refinery’s crude feedstock requirements with the option of increasing to 70 percent. Meanwhile natural gas, power and other utilities will be supplied by PETRONAS and its affiliates. The Parties will share in the rights to offtake the production of the Joint Ventures on an equal basis. The refinery, which has a capacity of 300,000 barrels of crude per day, will produce a range of refined petroleum products, including gasoline and diesel, which meet Euro 5 fuel specifications. It will also provide feedstock for the integrated petrochemical complex, which is capable of producing 3.3 million tonnes per annum of petrochemical products. Currently 87 per cent completed, the RAPID project is on track for refinery start-up in Q1 2019. “PIC has been an amazing journey for PETRONAS. This fast-track integrated development has reached peak construction this year and moving into pre-commissioning and commissioning activities soon,” said Executive Vice President & CEO Downstream, PETRONAS, Datuk Md Arif Mahmood. “The partnership with Saudi Aramco is the result of the collective effort of key stakeholders in the two governments in addition to the two companies. We welcome Saudi Aramco’s participation and look forward for a successful joint venture.” Arif added that once operational, RAPID will not only strengthen PETRONAS' ability to be flexible and reliable in meeting customers’ needs, but also bolster the company’s position as the largest glycol and polypropylene producer, as well as the second largest HDPE and isononanol producer in South East Asia. Commenting on the partnership, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice President of Downstream, Abdulaziz Judaimi said: “This agreement strengthens Saudi Aramco’s position and growth in South East Asia through crude supply and world-scale downstream operations. Through this venture, we will also achieve a high degree of integration between refining and petrochemicals, with petrochemicals production greater than 20% of crude intake. It is also in tandem with our downstream growth strategy where we are investing in a global refining and petrochemicals system of strategically located world-scale manufacturing complexes with participated refining capacity of eight to ten million barrels per day.” He added that the partnership with Petronas will also pave the way for future collaboration between the two companies. Located on a 6,239 -acre site about 400km south of the capital city of Kuala Lumpur, the RAPID project forms part of Malaysia’s ambitious 22,000-acre PIC under the Malaysian government’s Economic Transformation Programme to establish new engines of growth and push the nation into a new frontier of technology and economic development in the oil and gas downstream sector. Apart from the refinery, cracker and the downstream petrochemical facilities comprising the RAPID project, the PIC also includes the development of associated facilities such as a co-generation plant, an LNG re-gasification terminal, a raw water supply project, a deep water terminal, as well as centralized and shared utility facilities.  Saudi Arabia continues to power toward the goals set out in its transformative Vision 2030 economic road map with the recent announcement of an official endorsement by the Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques, King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, of the naming of King Salman Energy Park (SPARK) in the Kingdom’s Eastern Province. With Saudi Aramco as the main anchor tenant in the park, the project will create a global industrial hub for energy-related manufacturing services and is expected to attract some of the world’s biggest — and most innovative — energy industry names. In line with the goals of Vision 2030, SPARK will create tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs for local communities while serving as an economic catalyst. SPARK will offer a comprehensive ecosystem comprising of a world-class infrastructure, logistics and a dry port, shared services, a commercial and residential area, and highly specialized training centers.Saudi Aramco today participated in the Saudi-U.S. CEO Forum held in New York to promote bilateral business and cooperation between the two countries. The Forum was scheduled to coincide with the official visit to the United States by HRH Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. During the Forum a number of cooperation arrangements and prospective commercial collaborations were discussed. Speaking today at the Forum, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “We have enjoyed a long and successful relationship with our US partners since the discovery of oil in Saudi Arabia more than 80 years ago, and it is a pleasure to be here today among so many friends whom are all looking to explore and develop opportunities for commercial, industrial and economic cooperation between the Kingdom and the United States, which we hope will achieve exceptional success during the next 80 years to serve future generations.” He added: “The growth of Saudi Aramco`s operations and the strategic roll out of Saudi Vision 2030 will provide multiple opportunities for strengthening our collaboration and partnerships, not only in the oil and gas, refining and chemicals sector but also includes digital technologies and cooperation in the field of environmental conservation, climate change and the development of innovation through the establishment of relations with a group of leading American institutions in the academic, research and cultural, which are among the best in the world. We are also looking at cooperation in infrastructure, manufacturing and services industries; all of which the United States is distinguished for, and critical to managing and operating as well as growing an enterprise of Saudi Aramco’s scale.” Nasser also stressed that the commercial cooperation discussed today reflected the range and ambition of Saudi Aramco’s interests, consolidating its status as the world’s preeminent energy and chemicals company, and reflecting its role not only as a major industrial company but as a pioneer of global development thinking, characterized by the application of best practices and consolidating the historical friendship with many partners. During the Forum, Nasser participated in a panel discussion on Giga projects. He discussed the new generation, each having a system of interrelated projects, covering a broad scope of work and complexities, involving financial costs tens of billions. “It takes an extended period of time for these mammoth undertakings to be completed, resulting in significant transformation in the areas where they are implemented, and offers enormous opportunities for action, partnerships and investment,” he said. Nasser also spoke on Saudi Aramco's experience in the management and implementation of Giga projects, starting with the Shaybah development project, which came online producing 1 million barrels per day; moving to the gigantic Sadara project; the mega Jazan Refinery project; the King Salman International Complex Maritime Industries and Services project; and the game-changing King Salman Energy Park (SPARK). He also urged industry players to define a set of the most important elements of success that should be considered in the development of projects of this scale as among the advantages that make a distinctive and successful planning for Giga projects to be potentially implemented in Saudi Arabia. The commercial collaborations discussed at the Forum today included:Aramco Services Company (ASC), the North American arm of Saudi Aramco; and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), has entered into a new 5-year $25 million collaboration targeting new research and development (R&D) in the fields of sustainable and renewable energy; advanced materials; carbon capture, utilization, and storage; environmental sciences; energy storage; water conservation and reuse; advanced materials; and cutting edge technologies including computational modeling, artificial intelligence, robotics and nanotechnologies. This new collaboration, was reaffirmed at The Innovation to Impact Forum here in Boston, in the presence of HRH Crown Prince Mohammed Bin Salman who is on a visit to the United States. Aramco became a founding member of MIT Energy Initiative (MITEI) in 2012. Present during the event was Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser together with MIT President L. Rafael Reif.The collaboration underscores a mutual commitment to leveraging R&D to develop new solutions with the potential to address global energy and climate challenges. It also builds on ASC’s existing engagement with MITEI and its Low-Carbon Energy Centers.Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen: good morning. It is a privilege to speak at Naseba’s first forum here in the Kingdom. Indeed, Saudi Aramco is pleased to be the lead sponsor of this historic event. As a father of four daughters, I have a personal and vested interest in supporting the goals of – and the opportunities for – women in the Kingdom. I am also a Saudi. Which of course means that I have a further vested interest in the success of Vision 2030, including the target to increase female participation in the Kingdom’s workforce. For the purposes of today, I would like to focus my remarks on women working in my industry, my company and in our country. When I started my career with Schlumberger in 1991, there were few women in the company despite it being a leader in workforce diversity. I vividly remember the tough training I went through in Parma, Italy, along with a dozen other engineers from around the world. Six and half grueling days every week for four straight months. There was only one female in our group, and she was among those who did not complete the training. Five years later I moved to Saudi Aramco, joining the marketing department. Now, given this was not a field position, I expected there would be more women in various roles. But once again, there were only a few females doing secretarial work. Aramco did in fact have women in other senior roles at that time, but primarily in healthcare and HR. Over the ensuing years – I am pleased to say – Saudi Aramco has made notable progress on the gender diversity front. Let me give you an example. On my 20th anniversary with the company, I went back to work where I started: in marketing. I was appointed CEO of Aramco Trading – a company we set up a few years ago to trade our refined products and chemicals around the world. There was a sea-change from two decades earlier: in terms of prices, industry structure, markets complexity, competition, role of emerging markets, and more. In short, the marketing environment I returned to was far more challenging. One-third of the 170 employees on the trading floor were women. The company was in fact a model of women and men working seamlessly together. So it’s no surprise that Aramco Trading has grown to be among the largest traders in the world, capturing significant value from the company’s refining assets around the globe. This increased diversity is not limited to marketing. Indeed, Saudi Aramco now employs a number of talented women in senior positions. People like Dr. Abeer Al-Olayan – a petroleum scientist who works in our Exploration and Petroleum Engineering Center. Abeer was recently named Middle East Oil & Gas Woman of the Year for ground-breaking work that includes leading a team in developing smart materials. Smart materials like a liquid that transforms into gel when exposed to high stress and converts back to liquid form when conditions normalize. A striking fact is that one of our top performers in Aramco Trading was her sister, Hanan. The first woman in Saudi Aramco to lead the operation team for sales of crude oil and refined petroleum products. That such diversity in talent is observed in these two sisters (one a scientist and the other a commercial expert) is a testament to the tremendous capacity of women and their wide range of talent. Also people like Dr. Samantha Horseman – an inventor who works in an area we call Human Energy Management. She has 40 patents to her name. Last year, she received global recognition for two of her creations – a driver safety system and an innovative Predictive Personal Protective Equipment. In fact, women working at Saudi Aramco have – at last count – filed more than 170 patents in recent years. While such indicates promising progress, let me add that Saudi Aramco recognizes the need for further gender diversity – both now and in the future. From my perspective, we have three critical enablers to empowering women in our workforce and I believe they serve as a blueprint for other companies. This may seem somewhat obvious and counter intuitive, but despite half a century of research that proved the value of diversity in a workforce, some companies seek female employment for other reasons: like meeting corporate quotas. In reality however, gender diversity must to be championed by a leadership team that truly believes in its many benefits. At Saudi Aramco, we created the Women Development and Diversity Division a few years ago. Its mandate is to provide programs that develop professional careers for women and help them build leadership skills. Its activities include dialogue with executives across the company to benchmark and increase diversity at all levels, including leadership. Saudi Aramco understands there is tough competition for qualified female talent. And that this talent requires target hiring. Accordingly, we have increased female recruitment to more than 20% of all our new hires. We are now hiring more women at Saudi Aramco than ever before. Females now receive one out of every three overseas scholarships we provide to students. In fact, we currently sponsor 270 young Saudi females pursuing degrees in science, technology, engineering and other majors around the world. To broaden the pool of qualified female talent into the energy sector, we run outreach programs for female students in elementary schools to encourage future careers related to the STEM subjects. Our own STEMania Program targets young females in an all-female environment, and is run in collaboration with the Ministry of Education. Saudi Aramco further understands the need to attract and retain women through professional work environments that cater to the needs of working women. Having leaders that champion diversity, and active female recruiting is simply not enough. In fact most of the effort towards diversity is in the support enabler, which can take on many forms. In Saudi Aramco we’ve put in place mentoring, development and leadership programs for females. We also developed policies to ensure the work environment is both respectful and tolerant, and ensured that males support and champion diversity - particularly leaders who are important role models for the rest of the company. Saudi Aramco strives to be a good corporate citizen. To that end, we advocate the benefits of gender diversity to the larger corporate community through sponsorships like this conference. We have also leveraged our experience and demand for services to partner with Tata and GE to establish the All-Women Business Process Services and IT Center here in Riyadh, providing career opportunities to more than 1000 women, while serving an important function for businesses in the kingdom. A success story we are repeating with Princess Nora University. We have also initiated a platform called GROW (Gulf Region Organization for Women) that brings together more than 30 companies in the region all striving to bridge the gender opportunity gap. As I noted earlier, the business case for companies increasing the number of women in the workplace and in leadership is well-documented. Likewise are the economic benefits of increased gender diversity in any nation’s workforce. Research has shown that increasing female labor force participation and closing the gender wage gap can yield tremendous benefits. Indeed, Brookings’ researchers demonstrated that doing so reduces the skills gap, boosts economic growth and cuts poverty. Vision 2030 is driving the largest and fastest economic and social reform program in our history. Diversity of the economy and diversity of the workforce are two of the foundational elements of these reforms. The economic gains from these efforts will be immense (ان شاء الله). I believe that starting from a relatively low level of female labor force participation should confer greater benefits to our economy than what studies on advanced economies have demonstrated - particularly when considering the level of education attained by Saudi women. Throughout today and tomorrow, you will hear from many remarkable women and undoubtedly be inspired by their experiences. As someone who has seen – firsthand – the power of women in the workforce in the largest employer in the Kingdom, let me offer some concluding advice to the young women with us today. I encourage you to seize the opportunity you are being given. Do so by prioritizing your development and aiming high, while also trying to maintain that elusive work-life balance. By the way, this is the exact same advice I would give your male counterparts. Except, however, I believe that you – as females – have a greater opportunity to do amazing things because of the diversity dividend you bring to the table. Notwithstanding, most of you may face greater challenges than males - an unavoidable consequence of being pioneers in many activities and industries. But with determination, you can and will succeed - and in doing so help make Vision 2030 a reality. On that note, I would like to thank the organizers of the women in leadership forum for their kind invitation for me to share my thoughts with you, wish you a successful and productive event, and hand the floor to a few more of the many women thriving in my place of work.  Saudi Aramco participated as a lead sponsor in the Women in Leadership Economic forum titled “Let’s Talk About Tomorrow,” taking place on March 19 – 20 in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.  At the forum’s opening session, Yaser Mufti, Saudi Aramco Vice President of Strategy and Market Analysis, said “Saudi Aramco has a long history in female recruitment and more importantly their empowerment and development in the energy sector. The company continues these efforts to foster diversity and to increase female participation in the national economy.”   He added : “In Saudi Aramco, women have always proved themselves, assumed senior leadership positions, enjoyed equal opportunities in various fields, and they continue to unleash their full potential constantly.”     The forum brings together up to 1,000 business leaders, entrepreneurs, diversity champions and policy-makers from across the Kingdom to advance women in leadership and address the challenges facing Saudi Arabia.     Saudi Aramco’s participation at the event included Lamah Al-Khayyal, head of Women Development and Diversity Division; Einas Ashgar, COO of Waed Entrepreneurship Center; in addition to Colin Sloman, Director of Management and Professional Development.     The Women Development and Diversity Division in Saudi Aramco, along with a number of females from other subsidiaries, have participated in a number of panel discussions in addition to a workshop titled “Courage to create tomorrow.”     The forum tackled several topics, including economic empowerment, Saudization, diversity and inclusion, innovation and entrepreneurship.refining, processing and marketing of hydrocarbon energy refining, processing and marketing of hydrocarbon energy refining, processing and marketing of hydrocarbon energy refining, processing and marketing of hydrocarbon energy. Saudi Aramco's Power Systems Renewables Department (PSRD) recently hosted its first engagement workshop with domestic joint ventures and relevant Saudi Aramco departments to identify opportunities and share knowledge about renewables and smart energy solutions. Among the 46 attendees were representatives from SAMREF, SASREF, John Hopkins Aramco Healthcare, Sadara, YASREF and Luberef, as well as participants from Saudi Aramco organizations such as the Consulting Services, Facilities Planning, Process and Control Systems, Project Management Office, and ESD. All joint venture representatives were encouraged to analyze their facility operations and identify opportunities to reduce costs by deploying renewable technologies. Abdulkarim A. Al Ghamdi, executive director of Aramco's Power Systems, highlighted the significant decrease in the cost of power from solar photovoltaic (PV) systems due to a combination of factors such as significant global growth in renewables investment, reduction in equipment costs, and increasing efficiencies in solar technology. He also emphasized the competitive advantages for renewable applications as an integrated part of our business, which would create value for Saudi Aramco. The company plans to increase the application of solar PV for remote facilities in Upstream and Downstream operations, as solar PV with battery storage can provide a viable alternative to installing and extending electrical distribution lines. Participants raised several discussion points, such as availability of land, renewables deployment for specific applications, and technical and operations support. Among some of the ideas introduced for solar PV installation included remote monitoring and control via Wi-Fi network for efficient assets management. The three main themes that emerged from the brainstorming sessions were solar PV applications, smart energy solutions, and waste-to-energy opportunities. As part of exchanging knowledge and best practices about the deployment of renewables, Power Systems organized a site visit to the Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) in the United Arab Emirates with representatives from various admin areas, including Upstream, Downstream and Technical Services. The company’s delegation visited ADNOC’s headquarters in Abu Dhabi, and then the operations in the area. The purpose was to exchange knowledge about off-grid solar PVs on well sites and other relevant applications. One of the key takeaways of the visit was that the Saudi Aramco team discovered there were no reliability issues related to stand-alone solar power systems in the fields they visited, which is one of the largest in the UAE. Before a single barrel of crude oil is shipped to an awaiting ship at Saudi Aramco’s terminal in Ras Tanura, operators must certify the purity of the crude oil in their tanks. A new technology, called ground level optical water cut (GLOW), allows to check the water content of a crude oil shipment in a safe and timely manner. Traditional methods used by the industry for verifying the water content of crude oil have not changed much over the decades. In most oil terminals around the world, an operator is sent to the top of a crude oil tank to lower a depth gauge coated with chemicals that identify how much water rests. Strong winds or rains have been a constant challenge, preventing operators from the risk of climbing tanks for hours or even days — a costly delay for both the company and its customers. The GLOW innovation allows operators to verify the water content of a crude oil shipment in a safe and timely manner, without putting operators at risk. It utilizes an optical glass and a series of pipes in a closed looping system, extended into the tank. The system provides the same accuracy with much less risk of exposure to heights and toxic gases. This will reduce the total man-hours by more than 80% over the conventional method. “The main reason for this technology is safety for the operator,” said Shaker M. Al Mahrous, manager of Saudi Aramco’s Terminal Operations. “The GLOW device will disrupt the conventional way of performing water cut activity and will reset the industrial standards. This solution eliminates the main cause of incidents in the industry, which is falling from heights. “And yet, this solution still allows us to provide the verification that our customers need. GLOW allows us to see what water is in the tank in an instant, without the risk to our personnel,” he added. Developed and tested entirely within the company by Fahad S. Alnamasi, an engineer, the genius of the GLOW solution is its simplicity. A series of seven pipes are installed in seven different elevations from the bottom of the tank. When the operator needs to know the water content, he just needs to open a valve to let the fluid from a certain pipe flow into the header where the contents can be viewed through an optical glass. “I wanted to make the innovation as simple as possible because the cost is cheap,” said Alnamasi. “The sight glass is $1,000. If you include the pipes, the total cost is about $5,000. This compares with millions for higher technology solutions. A small investment with huge returns; enhancing safety, avoiding ships delays, improving quality, and saving costs.”  Saudi Aramco announced today names of the recipients of its Excellence Award, an award that honors the company’s high-achiever teams and individuals who demonstrated excellence, commitment and determination to make a difference and to realize Saudi Aramco values and strategic objectives.  The awards ceremony was attended by HE Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Chairman of Saudi Aramco and the company’s board members. “The continued pursuit of excellence has been critical to Saudi Aramco’s long term success, thanks to breakthrough and innovative solutions to make our resources more valuable for our long-term growth and value creation. Our industry leadership today is because of our most important asset and the sustained source of our competitive advantage, which is the great men and women of Saudi Aramco,” said Amin Nasser, president and CEO of Saudi Aramco, in his remarks during the awards ceremony.  “These awards are a great way to celebrate our strengths and to recognize the commitment, dedication and sacrifices made by our honorees, and may I also add that their families have played a part in their success. We have always put excellence at the core of Saudi Aramco’s values and we will continue to reinforce our culture of excellence through platforms like today’s awards,” Nasser added. The excellence awards went to 71 employees for their achievements in 19 areas and projects across the company’s operations in upstream, downstream, technical services, operations and business services, technology oversight and coordination, corporate affairs and others. The awards are not only tokens of appreciation for excellence in operations, innovation and technology implementation, they are also awarded to those who make a positive and sustainable social impact. In Saudi Aramco, excellence is one if the core values that guide the company’s business conduct and underpin all of its operations. In addition to excellence, the company honors and embraces the values of safety, integrity, citizenship, and accountability, and strives to leverages a flexibly and safe culture that fosters highest standards of ethical conduct and leave a positive impact in societies. Saudi Aramco today participated in the UK-Saudi CEO Forum held in London to promote bi-lateral business and cooperation between the two countries. The forum was scheduled to coincide with the official visit to the UK by HRH Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman and saw Saudi Aramco sign a number of MoUs and commercial agreements. Speaking today at the Saudi-UK CEO Forum, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser said “Saudi Aramco has a massive investment program over the next 10 years. This includes a number of large world scale projects where British businesses can play a major role. “With Vision 2030, I believe there are more opportunities for collaboration and partnerships, not only in the oil and gas sector but also in infrastructure, manufacturing and services industries which are critical to manage and operate an enterprise like Saudi Aramco. “Saudi Aramco has nearly 4,000 registered British vendors and contractors. In the last 10 years we have spent nearly $10 billion in services and materials contracts with British service providers. We have currently have more than 200 active contracts with British companies. The businesses range from engineering and construction, drilling equipment, power generation machinery and quality management services.” The MoUs, signed today by Saudi Aramco with Royal Dutch Shell, Imperial College, The Welding Institute (TWI) and The Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House), reflect the company’s close ties to the United Kingdom and the breadth of its strategic interests.  The MoU Saudi Aramco signed today with Royal Dutch Shell agreed to jointly pursue international gas business opportunities, including upstream development, liquefaction projects and other aspects of the gas value chain. The MoU reflects Saudi Aramco’s strategy to expand its natural gas assets while acknowledging Royal Dutch Shell’s strength in LNG. Saudi Aramco also signed an MoU with The Royal Institute of International Affairs (Chatham House), one of the world’s leading think tanks and research establishments and a frequent host to visiting Heads of Government and senior political leaders, including high ranking Saudi ministers. The MoU reflects a long standing relationship and paves the way for further cooperation on assessing changes to the global and national energy markets and policies.  Saudi Aramco also signed an MoU with Imperial College London. The MoU will seek to establish joint projects targeting frontier technologies and developments in chemical engineering, petroleum and geoscience, mechanical engineering and advanced materials. Finally, Saudi Aramco inked a further MoU with the internationally acclaimed Cambridge-based independent research and technology institution, TWI which is recognized as a global center of excellence in materials joining and engineering processes. The MoU sets out plans to establish the multi-stakeholder Non-Metallic Innovation Center (NIC) at TWI alongside NSIRC (National Structural Integrity Research Centre), a partnership with leading academic institutions, research centers, energy companies and composite materials manufacturers. The four MoUs were complemented during the visit with two other commercial agreements including one with Aberdeen-based Downhole Products to further strengthen Saudi Aramco’s drilling operations. Following today’s signing ceremonies, Mr. Nasser said, “- Today, we are further expanding our relationship with six agreements and MOUs with leading British companies and organizations to support Saudi Aramco’s long business growth strategy.  “At Saudi Aramco we have real, tangible and meaningful opportunities to collaborate and build partnerships now and in the future. The strengths of British businesses and industry can play a role in Saudi Aramco’ business plan including in our diversification and expansion strategies underscored by the framework of Vision 2030.”In a significant new step towards the successful implementation of Saudi Aramco and SABIC’s fully integrated, strategic crude oil- to-chemicals (COTC) complex in the Kingdom, the partners today awarded Wood, a leading, global British-owned provider of project management and professional and engineering services in the petrochemicals industrial field, a contract for project management and front-end engineering design (FEED). The award of the contract coincides with the visit of His Royal Highness Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense, to the United Kingdom. The award of this PMC follows the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in November 2017 between Saudi Aramco and SABIC to assist in bringing the mega-project to its next stage of development. The scope of the contract primarily includes the finalization of the project scope, selection of technology providers, updating project economics and performing the front-end engineering design (FEED).  Amin H. Al-Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco, said: “This is an important milestone in a partnership that we are proud of between Saudi Aramco and Sabic; a partnership that is in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategy for business integration, adding value and tackling global growth opportunities in chemicals. It is also important to mention that this project will achieve a direct conversion rate from crude oil to chemicals of almost 50%, a globally unprecedented rate. This offers the Kingdom solid opportunities to produce chemicals as a feedstock as part of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to maximize return on investments in hydrocarbon resources.”  Yousef Al-Benyan, SABIC Vice Chairman & CEO, said: “I am very happy and optimistic to see the timely delivery of this key milestone in the strategic COTC project, which through an innovative configuration will generate the world's highest proven yield conversion rate of oil to chemicals in a competitive and sustainable way.” Nasser added: “The complex will have a great economic impact and will create thousands of direct and indirect job opportunities for Saudis. In addition, the complex offers synergy and conversion of the strategic goals and objectives of Saudi Aramco and SABIC. It will be capable of maximizing chemical yield, recycling byproducts, optimizing resources and driving efficiencies of scale.” Al-Benyan added, “Ours is a business relying on finite natural resources for our feedstock. We have an obligation to deploy those resources as efficiently and in the most sustainable manner possible. The COTC technology will enable us to squeeze as much value as possible from our feedstock, thereby benefitting our shareholders, our customers and the planet. The COTC project will spur on a new era of industrial diversification, job creation and technology development in Saudi Arabia.” By 2030, the COTC complex is expected to be a significant contributor to the Kingdom’s Gross Domestic Product and play a key role in helping the continued economic diversification away from crude exports to higher value industrial products. Consistent with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030, this project will support the creation of a further diversified world-leading downstream sector in Saudi Arabia.Good morning Ladies and Gentlemen, and thank you Dan [Yergin] for that kind introduction. Like all CEOs, I receive many invitations to address conferences. Naturally, the first thing I ask is: “How will this help Saudi Aramco?” The second is: “How will this help our industry?” And the third is: “Will Dan Yergin be involved?!” So CERA Week in Houston really hits the trifecta!!! Let me also thank Dan for reminding us of that historic breakthrough 80 years ago this week. It was only possible because of an incredible partnership between American geologist Max Steineke and his Bedouin guide, Khamis ibn Rimthan. They always seemed to know where to go next, and what it would take to get there. So this morning I want to be clear about what really lies ahead for our industry, and the actions we must take to secure that future. Before that, let me briefly address the current oil market situation that is on everyone’s mind. Despite significant price volatility, with many forecasts of rising shale oil production, we remain confident that market fundamentals are healthy. And despite recent volatility in the financial markets, the broad-based recovery in the global economy remains on track. It is particularly encouraging to see expectations of stronger economic growth in the emerging and developing world because that is where most oil demand growth is expected to be. Oil demand globally also remains healthy. Major oil producers continue to show exceptional production restraint, while spare capacity is tight, and there are multiple downside geopolitical risks to supply. So I am not unduly concerned about the recent volatility and expect the market to strengthen once the seasonal factors begin to fade. Let me now turn to the energy transition underway. I am increasingly worried that it is being portrayed in ways that seriously threaten future energy security and the transition itself. In particular, the future role of oil is widely misunderstood, and I want to tell the real, compelling story today. The hot topic in energy transition is the future role of oil in transport. At the heart of it is the light duty road passenger vehicles segment that accounts for about 20% of global oil demand today. Many wrongly believe that it is a simple matter of electric vehicles quickly and smoothly replacing the internal combustion engine. Nor is it an “either/or” future, but far more complex. In fact, there are five strong technology horses racing each other to become the powertrain of the future – advanced Internal Combustion engines; Hybrid Electric Vehicles (Both Series and Parallel); Plug-in Hybrid Vehicles; Pure Battery Electric Vehicles; and Hydrogen Fuel Cell Vehicles. The first three are powered by an internal combustion engine. And let us not forget that more than 99% of the passenger vehicles on the road today have an internal combustion engine and will be with us for a long time. In fact, some of the most disruptive technologies are only just emerging, including highly advanced integrated engine-fuel systems like the ones our researchers are working hard on at Saudi Aramco in collaboration with car and truck engine manufacturers. So, given the world’s focus on climate change, there should be a global priority on improving the efficiency and lowering carbon emissions from internal combustion engines as well as fuels. Especially when the other two horses in the race – Pure Battery Electric Vehicles and Hydrogen Fuel Cell Vehicles – still face a range of problems. For example, battery electric vehicles will not deliver rapid and economical reductions in carbon emissions until the electricity fuel mix becomes sufficiently clean. Even 25 years from now, coal will still comprise up to half that mix in vast markets like China and India. Right now, with battery electric vehicles we are simply moving emissions from tailpipe to smoke stack. Meanwhile, hydrogen fuel cell vehicles are very promising and may turn out to be the silver bullet for electrification challenges in terms of driving range, charging time, and charging infrastructure. But they also face major challenges involving cost, durability, reliability, onboard hydrogen storage, safety, and public acceptance. So the powertrain mix of the future is far from decided, and competition is real. There are also major hurdles before alternatives can be deployed at scale. Affordability is one, as customers continue to place great importance on up-front costs, especially in developing nations. Another is that it will become increasingly difficult for governments to subsidize such enormous numbers, although this is often glossed over. And it will require massive infrastructure, which is particularly challenging in developing nations as they are least well-equipped and can least afford this in the face of other economic and social priorities. Yet the majority of vehicle growth will be in those very same nations. Further adding to the complexity will be the extra two billion people on the planet by 2050. A world economy three times its current size. And a global middle class that will reach five billion by 2030 – with two-thirds of it in Asia driving consumption. These macro factors will only grow demand for road passenger transport! So, yes, battery electric vehicles will grow and have a welcome role to play in global mobility. But given the competition and complexity of the transition, their impact on the 20% oil demand should not be exaggerated. And that still leaves the other 80%, where oil demand continues to grow. In petrochemicals alone, oil use is expected to increase by almost 50%, while the number of air passengers each year is expected to almost double to 8 billion over the coming two decades. And what about new outlets for our products? I believe there are even more innovative ways to monetize each barrel, particularly in non-combustible and new uses. For example, Saudi Aramco recently signed an agreement centered on a potential breakthrough technology that will directly convert up to 70 percent of a barrel of crude into petrochemicals. This could transform the role of oil as a major petrochemical feedstock, substantially lighten the carbon footprint of oil consumption because of its non-combustible nature, and reduce costs by 30 percent. And become a large and reliable outlet for our future oil production. I also see huge potential in producing advanced materials for use in a wide range of high growth industries. Just imagine a future where skyscrapers, cars (including electric ones!), and even our own pipelines are built with these advanced oil-based materials. Looking further ahead, if we combine hydrogen from oil with carbon capture, utilization, and storage then green hydrogen comes within reach – not only for transport but also power and heat. My friends, this is the complex reality of the energy transition: In other words, I am not losing any sleep over ‘peak oil demandʼ or ‘stranded resourcesʼ. Oil and gas will continue to play a major role in a world where all energy sources will be required for the foreseeable future. But is the world ready for continued growth in oil and gas demand? Frankly, that readiness is weakening day by day – fueled by irrational hopes of rapid switching, and a lack of realism about the valuable, long-term contribution our industry will make. So as an industry, we need to move people from fasting on hope to feasting on reality. We need to massively raise our game, and make a compelling case about oil’s true role in the energy transition. In particular, I believe we need bold action now in four key areas to ensure that those growing calls on our industry continue to be met. First, we need to expand exploration. Last year, only 7 billion barrels equivalent of oil and gas combined were discovered, which is among the lowest on record. Second, we must not only meet the growth in oil demand but also offset a large natural decline in developed oil fields. Even conservative estimates suggest about 20 million barrels per day of new capacity is required over the next five years. Third, our industry needs more than 20 trillion dollars over the next quarter century to meet rising demand for oil and gas (including in ageing infrastructure). That is virtually the size of the U.S. economy! And we have already lost 1 trillion dollars of investments since the downturn. This staggering amount will only come if investors are convinced that oil will be allowed to compete on a level playing field, that oil is worth so much more, and that oil is here for the foreseeable future. That is why we must push back on the idea that the world can do without proven and reliable sources. We must challenge mistaken assumptions about the speed with which alternatives will penetrate markets. And leave people in no doubt that misplaced notions of ‘peak oil demandʼ and ‘stranded resourcesʼ are direct threats to an orderly energy transition and energy security. We also need an environment that encourages long-term investments, as we are seeing here in the United States, and in Saudi Arabia with our ambitious Vision 2030. Fourth, we need to intensify our efforts to both enhance current technologies as well as create new, game-changing ones. That requires us to devote more resources to longer term research, particularly low-to-no carbon products. And it means regulators must be policy holistic and technology agnostic – let the market decide.At Saudi Aramco, we are addressing all four issues in our long-term strategy.
I will talk more about our performance, and our long-term plans for growth and value creation in the Q&A with Dan.
Ladies and Gentlemen, I hope that has lifted the hood on the real future facing our industry.
 An industry at the heart of the much larger global economy that continues to reliably meet the energy demands of billions of people for decades to come, helping to meet society’s lower carbon goals, and remaining at the cutting edge of technology.
 Yes, we face huge challenges to get there.
But ours is the industry of Spindletop and Shale, of Manifa and Ghawar, of Steineke and Khamis.
 As they knew 80 years ago, and as Americans and Saudis know today, going the extra mile together when others are starting to write us off is the best way of making our own history.
 Thank you very much, and I wish you a great CERA Week ahead.Speaking at the annual CeraWeek conference in Houston, President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said Saudi Aramco is actively pursuing and investing in several innovative and promising new technologies and initiatives, not only in oil, but also in its multiple uses, such as in transportation, petrochemicals, advanced materials, as well as in carbon emissions reduction. He added that “oil will maintain its key role in the global energy mix for the foreseeable future, despite the increasing growth of renewables. The growth of the world’s population requires the continuing development of several types of energy sources simultaneously.” In a special address before an audience of energy executives, experts, government officials and policymakers, Nasser noted that strong economic growth in emerging and developing markets, an additional two billion energy consumers by 2050, in addition to new non-combustible uses for oil, will continue to drive demand for hydrocarbons. He added that the resulting transition to sustainable energy will be lengthy and complex which alternative sources cannot adequately support. “It’s particularly encouraging to see expectations of stronger economic growth in the emerging and developing markets because that’s where most oil demand growth is expected to be,” Nasser said. He also addressed growing demand for non-combustion uses for oil and gas: “We see huge potential in producing advanced materials for use in a wide range of high-growth industries like automotive, construction, and housing, as well as in our own industry,” he said. Saudi Aramco CEO warned against some misconceptions around the future of oil, such as an impending peak demand. He explained that these erroneous and misleading notions are sending negative signals which do not encourage investment in hydrocarbons needed to meet future demand. He reassured that the market’s fundamentals are healthy, despite fluctuations, expressing his confidence that global oil demand will continue to grow and that oil will maintain its preeminence in the global energy mix for the foreseeable future. Nasser called on the energy industry to take bold action in four key areas to ensure that global oil and gas demand continue to be met in the years ahead, which included: expanding exploration, offsetting declines in legacy fields, new and continued investment, as well as enhancing and creating new game-changing technologies. Saudi Aramco participation at CeraWeek included Chief Technology Officer Ahmad O. Al Khowaiter, who took part in discussion sessions onOil and the Future of Mobility, Strategies for the Energy Future and Game Changing Technologies for Oil and Gas. The theme of this year’s CeraWeek was “Tipping Point: Strategies for a New Energy Future. This year marks the 37th anniversary of CeraWeek, an energy conference ranked among the top five “corporate leader” conferences in the world, providing insights and critically important dialogue on the future of the energy industry. CeraWeek also coincided with the 80th anniversary of the discovery of oil in Saudi Arabia, an event which led to the transformation of, not only the economic landscape in Saudi Arabia, but also of the global energy industry. And just as oil played a key role as an energy source in the 20th century, it will equally maintain its preeminence as the leading and an even more sustainable energy source in the 21st century.“There is nothing out of the ordinary occurring here in the general course of our business,” Socal executive W.H. Berg wrote to R.W. Hanna, another Socal employee, in California on March 14, 1938. “However, we are all very much hopped up over the results of tests made on our deep drilling in Arabia. “While ‘one swallow does not make a Spring,’ I am rather encouraged to feel that in this instance, one oil well will make an oil field,” Berg continued. Yergin also quoted from a letter written by William J. Lenahan, the company representative in Jiddah, to Socal lawyer Lloyd N. Hamilton, who had negotiated the oil concession agreement with ‛Abd Allah Al-Sulayman, the Kingdom’s finance minister. On Oct. 30, 1938, Lenahan wrote that he had visited King ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa‛ud to inform him of the commercial oil strike. The king replied, “Some of my people have been telling me that oil in large quantities would never be found in my country … but I always thought they were wrong.” Saudi Aramco recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Nippon Steel and Sumitomo Metal Corporation (NSSMC), Sumitomo Corporation, and Sumitomo Corporation Saudi Arabia to conduct a feasibility study for an integrated steel mill to produce steel plates in the Ras al-Khair area.  The MoU was signed by Abdulaziz A. Al Abdulkarim, Saudi Aramco vice president of Procurement and Supply Chain Management; Atsushi Iijima, management executive officer of NSSMC; Kazunari Sakata, corporate officer of Sumitomo Corporation; and Masashi Abe, managing director of Sumitomo Corporation Saudi Arabia. The signing was witnessed by Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Technical Services, and senior executives from all parties. “Saudi Aramco is pleased to sign this MoU, which will enhance the local supply chain supporting Saudi Aramco and others in the Kingdom,” said Al Sa’adi. “The presence of the new steel mill will reduce costs, delivery time, and offer better customer service to the local market.” NSSMC, headquartered in Japan, is the world’s second largest steel producer by volume as of 2017 with more than 90,000 employees, and is involved in the production of steel and finished steel products used in all industries. Sumitomo Corporation, also headquartered in Japan, is among the world’s oldest and largest integrated trading and investment enterprises, and has a global network consisting of 139 offices and approximately 800 consolidated subsidiaries and associated companies worldwide. This project is in support of the iktva program, which is designed to increase the local content in Saudi Aramco’s supply chain. Steel plate production goes into the manufacturing of pipes, pressure vessels, marine vessels, offshore platforms, and infrastructure, among other applications. This collaboration enhances the relationship between Saudi Arabia and Japan and will support Saudi Vision 2030. Saudi Aramco participates in the Armed Forces Exhibition for Diversity of Requirements and Capabilities (AFED), as a Diamond Localization Partner, and shares its experience in localization and increasing local content. The exhibition is taking place on February 25 – March 5, 2018, under the patronage of the Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, and organized by the Saudi Armed Forces in Riyadh International Convention and Exhibition Center. “This exhibition is a great opportunity to explore venues of partnership and collaboration to localize industries and increase the share of local content as outlined by the Kingdom ambitious roadmap, Saudi Vision 2030.” Said Abdulaziz Al-Abdulkarim, Saudi Aramco Vice President for Procurement & Supply Chain Management. He added: “Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (iktva) is a landmark initiative that catalyzes localization in the energy and energy-related industries, leverages the economic role of SMEs and increases their contribution to the national GDP, and adds thousands of quality job opportunities.” Al-Abdulkarim mentioned that an average annual spending of approximately $12 billion was directed at over 4,000 SMEs during the past few years, either directly by Saudi Aramco or through its supply chain. He emphasized the importance of creating an ecosystem that enables SMEs to flourish and grow in order to achieve a sustainable economic development in the Kingdom. iktva program aims at creating value from the great opportunities offered by the Saudi energy sector. The program is designed to increase the share of local content in energy-related products and services, increase exports, localize the energy value chain in the Kingdom, create thousands of job opportunities for Saudis, and leverage the role of SMEs in economic development around the world. Through iktva, Saudi Aramco plans to deliver a world-class, locally sourced supply chain in the Kingdom with an overarching objective of achieving 70% of locally supplied content by 2021. This is in line with the goals and objectives of Saudi Vision 2030 that aspires to raise the contribution of local content in industry and to foster the economic role of SMEs as engines for innovation and sustainability. Currently, SMEs contribute around 20% of the Kingdom’s GDP, and Saudi Vision 2030 has set an initial target to increase that share to 35%. In addition to presenting Saudi Aramco’s experience in localization and local content, the company’s pavilion at the exhibition presented King Salman Energy Park and Aramco Entrepreneurship Center (Wa’ed). Situated between Abqaiq and Dammam, King Salman Energy Park offers a fully integrated industrial city with world class infrastructure and services developed to attract world leading manufacturing and service companies, supporting the Energy Sector. The city will be developed, operated, and anchored by Saudi Aramco, and it is aligned with Saudi Vision 2030. At maturity, the Energy Park will contribute over US $6 billion annually to the Kingdom’s GDP and create more than thousands of direct and indirect jobs. It will be developed on a 50 km2 site in the Eastern Province, and will focus on upstream, downstream, petrochemicals, power, and water and waste water. Development of the project’s first phase will start in Q2, 2018. Wa’ed, since its inception, has funded a number of new and innovative projects in various industries, including oil and gas, healthcare, education, industrial services and others. AFED 2018 gathers participants from all of the Saudi Armed Forces branches, government entities and private sector. It presents tens of thousands of investment opportunities in manufacturing equipment and spare parts. Objectives of the exhibition include presenting manufacturing opportunities of materials and spare parts, establishing communication and partnerships among attendees, presenting the capabilities of relevant Saudi organizations, promoting and developing local industry to achieve higher global standards, supporting localization and knowledge transfer, creating opportunities for the private sector, and attracting foreign investments. Saudi Aramco, with its young workforce and a commitment to fostering careers for both men and women, has made dramatic strides in recent years to draw on what some have called the company’s greatest untapped resource — female employees. A growing number of women are finding their place in the front lines of the company’s core businesses of Upstream and Downstream, working as mechanical, chemical, and petroleum engineers; chemists, lab scientists, and safety inspectors; and geologists, geophysicists, and IT specialists. Yahya A. Abushal, acting general manager at Ras Tanura Refinery says: “Saudi Aramco has always demonstrated a leading role in creating career opportunities for both men and women. Throughout time, women have reached executive level positions, which is empowering to the generations ahead. Today we are reaping the benefits of the gender diversity decisions that were made in the past decade. As a Kingdom, the benefit we gain is that we are starting to tap into the talent of the other half of society, who are now able to participate in more parts of the economy.” “Saudi Aramco, much like the Kingdom, is going through significant changes, especially when it comes to gender diversity. Specifically in the core business area of the company. With the increasing number of female students graduating from and majoring in science, technology, engineering, and math disciplines and fields, more opportunities are becoming available to young Saudi women”, says Lamah F. Al Khayyal, acting administrator for Saudi Aramco’s Women in Development and Diversity. “Our goal is not to simply increase the number of women in the company, but to provide women the opportunity to venture into technical fields and build their skills and qualifications to create a more diverse workforce for Saudi Aramco.”Saudi Aramco participates in Saudi Arabia Smart Grid Conference and Exhibition, signs strategic partnership agreement. Prompted by its commitment and pioneering role in stimulating development in the Kingdom to help achieve Vision 2030, Saudi Aramco sponsored and participated in the recently held conference Saudi Arabia Smart Grid Conference in Jiddah. The conference, seven of its kind, themed “Smart Solutions for Sustainable Development” was held under the patronage of HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources.Recent enhancements to Saudi Aramco’s Customer Care Center Besides, including a centralized function to process customer requests have made it easier and quicker for domestic customers to gain access to refined products. Catering to the needs of more than 3,000 customers across the Kingdom from Turaif in the north to Jazan in the south, Aramco’s sales representatives handle requests and initiate sales agreements for new clients before directing the requests to the responsible entity within the company for further processing. The center monitors and analyzes data about demand and supply at the company’s domestic sales network consisting of 22 bulk plants to ensure that customer requests are fulfilled in a timely manner. By automating a number of functions customers now have the option of completing their routine requests through an interactive voice response system by phone — without the need for a sales representative. A new truck tracking system enables real-time monitoring for more than 2,100 hauler trucks’ movements and alerts operators if there is an indication of unsafe driving or potential delay. This enables the efficient and safe operations of Saudi Aramco product hauling across the Kingdom.Saudi Aramco is participating in the 32nd Janadriyah National Heritage and Culture Festival, organized by the Ministry of National Guard, and inaugurated by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, on Wednesday, 7 February 2018. In its permanent pavilion based in Eastern Province House (Bayt Al-Sharqiyah), Saudi Aramco will showcase an open exhibition at Janadriyah, featuring a maquette of Well No. 7, also more famously known as the Prosperity Well. The exhibition includes a number of legacy images which conveys the story of discovering and developing the world’s unrivalled largest energy reserves. The Well’s oil discovery dates back to 1938. Saudi Aramco's participation at Janadriyah this year also includes a section at the pavilion under the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources (MEIM), of which more than 18 entities are also showcasing their initiatives. The exhibition reflects Saudi Aramco’s role and interest in this national occasion, highlights its active role within the society, and sheds light on the great achievements throughout the development of the Kingdom in relations to the oil and gas industry, and the energy sector in general. Nasser A. Nafisee, Saudi Aramco Vice-President, Corporate Affairs, said: "This great national event, which is highly supported by our wise Leadership, is a source of pride and dignity for all Saudi nationals. For more than 30 years, Janadriyah Festival has become a noble message delivered by the Kingdom to the whole world, reflecting the heritage and culture of this blessed country and its Arab and Islamic identity across generations, up to the breakthrough and development achieved by the Kingdom in all economic, social, cultural and educational fields." "We at Saudi Aramco are proud to participate in this great national event to substantiate the close and deep-rooted cohesion among the Saudi people. Through the Company’s pavilion at the festival, we offer the opportunity to the citizens to learn about our experiences and long expertise in the energy exploration and industry that have been resting on the shoulders of our employees for more than 80 years," he added. The pavilion presents documentaries as well as old and modern photographs depicting how the Company's operations have progressed since the early 1940s to date. Visitors of Saudi Aramco’s pavilion will find rare pictures representing the stages of such developments, starting from exploration, drilling, production, refining, training to HR development in the Company.  Saudi Aramco has completed a 1.7-kilometer long Baish Corniche linear Public Park north of Jazan Primary and Downstream Industries City along the Red Sea Coast, offering relief and health benefits for the local community. The recreation area with a view of the sea spans about 280,000 square meters and includes five children’s playgrounds, four outdoor gyms, and two large synthetic turf soccer fields with seating for spectators serves as an example of the company’s efforts to fulfill its citizenship responsibilities. At the heart of the park’s central plaza is a spectacular beach-front facility with an upscale family restaurant. Evenings over the area are mesmerizing and offer the entire family a truly eco-friendly experience. At a once seemingly unassuming location and built amid a cluster of diverse industry within a 30-mile radius, the facility now becomes a mini tourist attraction. The park provides lifeguards through five of its watch towers that overlook the entire stretch of the resort. There is also a first-aid facility at one of the buildings. A green belt along the cornice gives visitors a feeling of being on a green beach. The traditional date palm trees and grassy surfaces throughout the area are other added attractions. ‘Roads of Arabia: Archeological Treasures of Saudi Arabia’ exhibition, a joint initiative of Saudi Aramco’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage (SCTH), co-sponsored by Sumitomo Chemical and Showa Shell was inaugurated today at the Tokyo National Museum in the Japanese Capital, Tokyo, the third leg in the exhibition’s Asia tour, which included Beijing and Seoul. The inauguration ceremony was attended by the ambassador of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques to Japan, H.E. Ahmad Al-Barrak; Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and Chief Executive Officer; Said Hadrami, Saudi Aramco Vice President for International Operations; Anwar Hejazi, Aramco Asia President; Zeniya Masami, Tokyo National Museum Executive Director; Tsuyoshi Kameoka, Showa Shell Sekiyu President, Representative Director & Group CEO; Osamu Ishitobi, the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer at Sumitomo Chemical Company; and a high level delegation from Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology and, several diplomatic, business and cultural dignitaries. Before arriving in Japan, Roads of Arabia spent most of 2017 touring the major museums in China and South Korea, during which the exhibition was visited by more than 290,000 visitors. The relics exhibited at Roads of Arabia are expected to captivate the hearts and minds of Tokyo’s knowledge-craving visitors. Established in 1872, the Tokyo National Museum is the oldest Japanese national museum, and the largest art museum in Japan and the world. The exhibition will remain on display for three months before it sets sail again to new destinations. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Amin H. Nasser, highlighted that across the globe and throughout the ages, roads have proven to be the fabric of society. He said “Long before either of our two countries became modern nation-states, the exchange of trade and tradition between our ancestors helped shape the world for centuries. With Roads of Arabia, we bring you a sort of cultural map that explores this rich history.” Nasser continued: “From the earliest days of civilization, the Arabian Peninsula has been a venue for commercial trade, and a nexus for merchants and artisans, a place marked by cross-cultural engagement and an exchange of art, culture and ideas extending even as far as Japan.” Highlighting this diverse and dynamic relationship, Nasser added: “With the State visit of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques to Tokyo in March 2017, we were reminded that while the official Japan-Saudi relationship is comparatively young, it is strong. Through the efforts of King Salman and Prime Minister Shinzo Abe, Saudi-Japan’s Vision 2030 will see a strong partnership grow even stronger in the decades ahead.” Reflecting on the future relations between Saudi and Japan, Nasser added: “As the Kingdom works to diversify its economy into new sectors, Japan is poised to boost exports, investments and tourism beyond Asia. And through Roads of Arabia, we are also helping pave new roads of culture and people-to-people contacts, all of which are essential for true prosperity.” Nasser added: “once again, though we occupy distant ends of the Asian continent, it seems as if history invites our peoples to build a stronger future together.” As part of Vision 2030, Saudi Aramco is strengthening its focus on building bridges of trade, commerce and partnership with Japan – and this extends well beyond the energy sector. In recent decades, for instance, thousands of Saudi Arabia’s best and brightest students have studied in Japan. In fact, many are sponsored by Saudi Aramco, and go on to spend their careers with the company. This term, twenty-eight (28) Aramco-sponsored students are pursuing their education learning about Japanese society, culture, values and traditions, while building bonds of friendship that will last a lifetime. Nasser concluded his remarks by thanking the organizers, co-sponsors, the representatives from the Japanese government and extended his appreciation to His Royal Highness Prince Sultan Bin Salman, the President of the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage for bringing these incredible artifacts to the attention of the Japanese public and the wider world. Featuring important archaeological relics illustrating the depth of the Arab civilization and its history of more than one million years, the exhibition features more than 466 archaeological pieces assembled from the National Museum in Riyadh, the King Saud University Museum, and other local museums of Saudi Arabia. The artifacts on display, cover the prehistoric and pre-Islamic periods, the early, middle, and late Arabian kingdoms and civilizations, and the Islamic period until the establishment of the Kingdom throughout its three stages until the reign of King Abdulaziz, some of which are publicly displayed for the first time. Saudi Aramco, through its wholly-owned subsidiary Saudi Aramco Technologies, has today signed a three-party Joint Development Agreement (JDA) with CB&I, a U.S.-based leading provider of technology and infrastructure for the energy industry, and Chevron Lummus Global (CLG), a joint venture between CB&I and Chevron U.S.A. Inc., and a leading process technology licensor. The JDA will serve to scale up and commercialize Saudi Aramco’s Thermal Crude to Chemicals (TC2C™) technology. This innovative technology has been pioneered at Saudi Aramco’s Research & Development Center over the past few years in order to enable higher chemicals yield than previously achievable. This innovation also bypasses conventional refining steps by employing a proprietary direct conversion process. This proprietary technology represents significant innovative progress and complements Saudi Aramco’s crude-to-chemicals conventional projects. The innovative and conventional approaches together enable and accelerate the growth of Saudi Aramco’s Chemicals business. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said, “Saudi Aramco is going beyond the quick wins and is instead prioritizing investments in groundbreaking R&D and technology. Today’s Joint Development Agreement with CB&I and CLG is a technological first which will position Saudi Aramco to maximize the value of each barrel of crude oil it produces in the near future. This is a further opportunity for Saudi Aramco to contribute to the development of a stronger, more diversified Saudi economy, one that creates high value employment opportunities for young Saudis in a further realization of Vision 2030 objectives.” Saudi Aramco’s Chief Technology Officer, Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter said, “We are delighted to be working with our partners to fully realize the immense potential of this groundbreaking technology. This partnership will enable us to leverage the unique strengths of our companies to accelerate the scale-up and de-risking of the technology, while reiterating Saudi Arabia’s global leadership in crude oil and commodities production. This will support the Kingdom’s efforts toward industrial diversification, job creation and technology leadership in Saudi Arabia through downstream conversion of chemicals.” “It is an honor to partner with Saudi Aramco to develop the most competitive processing solution for crude to chemicals,” said Patrick K. Mullen, CB&I’s President and Chief Executive Officer. “This is a unique integration of advanced technology processes for the production of high-value petrochemicals from crude oil, and our three companies are best positioned to do so.” “CLG’s hydroprocessing technologies and CB&I’s ethylene cracker technology combined with Saudi Aramco’s proprietary thermal crude to chemicals technology will provide a strong foundation for this joint development,” said Leon de Bruyn, CLG’s Managing Director. “We are excited to be partnering with Saudi Aramco and making a positive impact on our industry by demonstrating an innovative approach to crude to chemicals.”Saudi Aramco, alongside other 13 Saudi entities, is participating in Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week 2018 in the UAE on January 13 – 20, 2018. The Saudi participation in the event is led by the Ministry of Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources, where high-profile Saudi organizations are showcasing sustainability-related initiatives and technologies at the Saudi Pavilion. Abdulkarim Al-Ghamdi, Saudi Aramco Executive Director of Power Systems, who represented the company at the event, said: “Saudi Aramco plays a significant role in supporting the diversification of the Kingdom’s energy mix, to increase energy efficiency and achieve sustainability goals and objectives. The company is considering new renewable energy opportunities for the utilities sector to diversify the company’s portfolio and to support the Kingdom’s goal in achieving renewable energy capacity of 9.5 GW by 2023.” Al-Ghamdi said that Saudi Aramco continues to explore opportunities in wind and solar energy in various locations in the Kingdom, in addition to R&D efforts in carbon management, emissions-to-value, engine and fuel technologies. He also emphasized the importance of localizing technologies and the value chain relevant to renewable energy in the Kingdom. The Company’s participation in the event is in line with the Kingdom’s efforts to achieve economic and environmental sustainability, as part of Saudi Vision 2030 and the National Transformation Program. Saudi Aramco implements digitization and smart solutions across all of its power, oil and gas hydrocarbon facilities. The digital solutions will further maximize new value generations to Saudi Aramco to maintain very competitive operating and maintenance cost, exceeding any pacesetters. The company achieves this while keeping its top environmental standards known as the best internationally. Last year, Saudi Aramco commissioned the first wind turbine in the Kingdom, providing electricity directly to the bulk plant in Turaif. One turbine creates enough power to supply 250 homes, can displace 19,000 barrels of oil equivalent, and generate 2.75MW. This is in addition to projects and initiatives that aim at increasing awareness about wind and solar energy. The Saudi Pavilion hosts a number of informative and interactive displays about energy, water resources, and waste management, where visitors can learn about the Kingdom’s efforts and initiatives in sustainability and development. Saudi Aramco also shared its experiences and solutions in wastewater treatment and reuse, and water conservation. In addition to the exhibition and the informative displays, the Saudi Pavilion will host a number of presentations and panel discussions about various topics including the Saudi National Atomic Energy Project, renewable energy, future of clean energy, energy efficiency, sustainable development, recycling and waste management, water resources, localization of the electricity sector and its services, solar energy and its value chain, research and development for sustainability. Saudi Aramco speakers will discuss Emissions-to-Value, energy efficiency, and sustainability experience. Other Saudi entities participating in ADSW include the Saudi Industrial Development Fund, the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu, SABIC, the King Abdulaziz City for Science and Technology, the Saudi Geological Survey, the Saudi Electricity Company, the Saudi Industrial Property Authority (MODON), the Industrial Clusters, King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, Saudi Energy Efficiency Center, King Abdullah Petroleum Studies & Research Center, the Renewable Energy Project Development Office, and Dussur. Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week is one of the largest gatherings of its kind in the world. Last year, it attracted more than 38,000 attendees, 200 speakers, 800 exhibitors from 45 countries, with more than 170 countries represented.Saudi Aramco is participating at the North American International Auto Show (NAIAS) in Detroit, where it will be showcasing innovative technologies that have the potential to transform the internal combustion engine (ICE), greatly improving its efficiency and reducing its environmental impact. Speaking ahead of the NAIAS, Saudi Aramco’s Chief Technology Officer, Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, welcomed the opportunity to engage directly with the automobile industry and show attendees. “We’re proud to be a premier sponsor of the show, and look forward to exhibiting our innovative transport technologies,” Al-Khowaiter said. Saudi Aramco, along with leading automakers, is pursuing research programs to develop and prove novel fuel and engine solutions capable of creating significant competitive and environmental advantages. “Electrification can play a role in addressing emissions. But the consensus is that ICEs will be prevalent for decades to come. Therefore, in the short- to medium-term, improving the ICE will yield the greatest benefits,” Al-Khowaiter said. “By collaborating with sector leaders and innovators to develop advanced ICE technologies, Saudi Aramco is putting into action our commitment to simultaneously address global climate and mobility challenges.” At the NAIAS, the company will demonstrate advanced ICE and enabling technologies including: Saudi Aramco’s global transport research network encompasses Aramco’s Research & Development Center in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia; a partnership with the Clean Combustion Research Center at the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) in Thuwal, Saudi Arabia; the Aramco Research Center in Detroit, MI; and the Aramco Fuel Research Center in Paris, France.Saudi Aramco was the sponsor of the recent Clean Fuels for Future High Efficiency Engines Symposium in Beijing, China. Part of the annual Society of Automotive Engineers International Powertrain, Fuels and Lubricants meeting, the symposium focused on peer relations for automotive original equipment manufacturers, trade associations, national laboratories, and automotive solution companies. The four-day event attracted more than 500 industry professionals from across Asia, Europe, and the Americas, with a total of 245 technical papers presented. Saudi Aramco’s joint collaborations with several major automakers are designed to demonstrate the internal combustion engine’s (ICE) potential for considerable efficiency improvements and our efforts to accelerate the development of cost-effective, viable technologies that also address the challenge of climate change. The continuous improvement in ICE efficiency offers clear advantages in regard to greenhouse gas emission reductions while concurrently meeting an ever-increasing global demand for mobility. In his keynote address, Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, Aramco's vice president of Technology Oversight and Coordination, discussed “The Role of Transport in a Rapidly Changing Energy Landscape.” Al-Khowaiter outlined why a new and innovative approach is required to address the challenges of sustainable future mobility, adding that the energy industry can and should play a more active role in partnering with automakers. “We need to work with leading minds in this area, and we believe that Chinese players can be at the forefront when it comes to technological advancements,” said Al-Khowaiter said. During the event, Al-Khowaiter met with a variety of Chinese speaking media outlets, discussing not only transport technology and sustainable energy solutions, but also Saudi Aramco’s strategic intent in Asia. “Oil will continue to play a key role in the global energy mix, and we are heavily invested in the Asian markets. Some 60% of oil consumption is focused on transportation — the rest is on the production of petrochemicals and other materials,” he said, adding that the petrochemical demand growth rate is greater than that of transportation energy’s demand growth rate. While the company’s focus is still weighted toward developing crude oil and petrochemicals, the relationship Saudi Aramco has with the transport industry is growing. “We believe policymakers should be technology agnostic,” Al-Khowaiter said. “By developing appropriate standards, they should allow all technologies to compete and allow the most efficient ones to prevail.” Saudi Aramco believes that the current technologies it is developing strategically across three continents will not only offer realistic solutions to reducing transport carbon footprints, but also provide economical and performance guaranteed engines for the future.Saudi Aramco and its partners; Lamprell Plc, the National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”); and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. Ltd. (HHI), today announced the official launch of their International Maritime Industries (IMI) joint venture. When fully operational in 2022, this integrated maritime yard will be one of the largest full-service maritime facilities. This new joint venture localizes essential links for Saudi Aramco’s supply chain related to offshore drilling and shipping activities, which will lead to optimized cost, reduced response times and improved agility for Saudi Aramco and its affiliates. The nearly 12 million square-meter facility will be the largest in the region in terms of production capacity and scale offering an unprecedented mix of products and services. This scope enables Saudi Aramco and its supply chain partners to meet their manufacturing and MRO requirements for offshore oil and gas rigs, offshore support vessels, and commercial vessels, including Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC). The yard has an annual capacity to manufacture four offshore rigs, over 40 vessels including three VLCCs, and service over 260 maritime products. “By meeting Saudi Aramco’s offshore production and transport needs, International Maritime Industries will serve our strategic intent to become the world’s foremost integrated energy and chemicals company. Its combination of technology, supply chain efficiencies and lifecycle partnership will create a world-class company that offers customers a keen competitive advantage,” said Abdallah I. Al-Saadan, Chairman of the JV’s Board of Managers and Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President of Finance, Strategy & Development. He added: “What is unique about IMI is the powerful synergy of manufacturing and operational excellence delivered by four established global and regional entities in the energy and maritime industries. International Maritime Industries already has orders for more than 20 rigs and 52 ships over the next decade, demonstrating the trust of the JV partners in the Company’s ability to produce quality, bespoke ships and rigs in line with national and global environmental requirements. This enables building an integrated supply chain that is localized and highly responsive.” The formal appointment of International Maritime Industries’ senior executives was also announced today, including Fathi K. Al-Saleem as CEO. Al-Saleem has more than 23 years’ experience at Saudi Aramco and led the feasibility and commercial development stages of International Maritime Industries. He has managed high performing teams in New Business Development, Corporate Planning and Engineering Services. During his career, he has led the Corporate Portfolio Analysis & Decision Support function responsible for corporate decision support, enterprise risk management and portfolio analysis. Prior to that, Al-Saleem managed the capital planning and evaluation for upstream and downstream investments. Al-Saleem stated, “International Maritime Industries is positioned to be a global competitor and a regional hub for maritime products and services. Through our combination of technology, integrated facilities and supply chain efficiencies, we are redefining what it means to partner with customers for maritime advancement.” Initial production and service operations are expected to commence in 2019, with the facility reaching its full operational capacity by 2022. This initiative will contribute towards localizing expertise related to the maritime industry and job creation in the Kingdom. A new autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV) that can conduct offshore platform debris surveys to identify seabed clearance and potential debris was recently inaugurated by Saudi Aramco.The AUV, which can also conduct offshore pipeline inspections to determine subsea asset integrity and accurately locate possible leaks, is also cost efficient. A job that could require a $50 million large survey vessel can now be done swiftly with the $2.5 million AUV. In addition to its cost avoidance benefits, the AUV’s technological innovation and modular design allows for interchangeable modifications based on mission needs. For example, the sidescan sonar/bathymetric module for geophysical operations is a camera used for subsea inspection projects, and it is also the environmental module for oil leak detection surveys. An additional battery module can be added to the assembly, allowing the AUV to extend the duration of its mission. In essence, the AUV resembles a shrunken vessel but is safer, as the team operates it remotely onshore or from a boat controlling the vehicle through Wi-Fi when within reach of its connection limit. When at depth, the AUV works its mission’s route using its Inertial Navigation System.Simon Squibb, the AUV field team leader in the Hydrographic Survey Unit, highlighted the safety and reliability of the vehicle. “It hosts a selection of safety features that enable it to abort missions and avoid danger with its collision safety systems and eases the search and recovery with an embedded satellite phone and a pinger locator,” he said. Badr M. Burshaid, acting manager of Project Management Office Department (PMOD), praised the team’s efforts. “The success of these bright individuals in reflecting the need and use of this technology is what gave us confidence to invest in it, as venturing into technologies that increase profitability, safety, and efficiency is something we always seek. Pursuing the implementation of technologies and innovation is how PMOD continuously strives toward Operational Excellence.” During the inauguration of the orange torpedo-shaped AUV at the Ju’aymah pier, a demonstration was performed by the AUV field team of Squibb, Zaki Ghunaim, Najeeb Al Ghanmi, Mohammed Al Otaibi, Mohamed Alnaqeib, and Yousef Al Maqaedi. The AUV field team could not have acquired the technology without the diligent research and support of the procurement project leader Bonifatius Toha and AUV project champion Ali Al-Shamrani.Starting from a casual conversation, the AUV concept went from an interesting chat to a reality through in-depth research and strong proposals. Al-Shamrani said, “This AUV is only the beginning, and I am certain my management did see the future in this technology, as it will bring a great deal of services — whether it is what we have on this AUV today or the investments that will be made to introduce new technologies into it to better serve the company.” The AUV’s success is another reflection of Saudi Aramco’s effective deployment of the latest industrial technologies.Saudi Aramco signed two agreements with the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu (RCJY) to allocate industrial locations for Saudi Aramco to set up two industrial projects at Ras Al-Khair Industrial City. The agreements were signed in the presence of Dr. Moslih bin Hamid Al-Otaibi, President of RCJY at their headquarters in Riyadh. Signing on behalf of Saudi Aramco was Mr. Fathi Al-Saleem, Manager of the Maritime Yard Department, while RCJY was represented by Eng. Ali Alshaghithri, General Manager of Strategic Planning & Investment Development. Under the agreements, RCJY will allocate two industrial locations for Saudi Aramco. The first one will be utilized by Saudi Aramco to set up a manufacturing facility for onshore drilling rigs and related equipment on an area of 500,000 square meters. The second location will be used to develop a casting and forging facility over an area of 300,000 square meters. The new casting and forging facility will serve the maritime industry and the manufacturing of equipment related to the oil and gas supply chain. Following the signing ceremony, Mr. Fathi Al-Saleem stated: "These projects will support the growth and localization of the supply chain related to the energy sector and help enhance the speed of supply and reduce associated costs for Saudi Aramco.” He added, “The projects are in line with the objective of our In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, which is to maximize local content in manufactured goods and services in Saudi Arabia, up to 70% by the year 2021.” Engineer Ali Alshaghithri emphasized the role of RCJY in providing the proper and conducive environment to stimulate industrial growth in the Kingdom, paving way for the Kingdom to strategically position itself particularly in the mining industry, to become a global competitor in this field. He stated: “The most important strategic objective of the industrial city of Ras Al-Khair is the development of the mining sector in line with the Kingdom's strategic direction to diversify the sources of the national income, as well as seizing advantages of the integration between industries in Ras Al-Khair and petrochemical industries in Jubail Industrial City, creating a dynamic synergy involving a variety of manufacturing-based industries. This integration will also create a significant number of job opportunities for young Saudis.” Today’s agreements represents an important element of Saudi Aramco's ongoing commitment to establishing a world-class supply chain and services ecosystem in Saudi Arabia. This is a strategic objective and cornerstone of the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) Program, launched by Saudi Aramco two years ago to double local content by 2021. Saudi Aramco has awarded a contract to build three Temporary Construction Facilities (TCFs) to AZMEEL Contracting Company as part of the company’s Gas Compression Program in Haradh and Hawiyah. Fahad Al-Helal, Saudi Aramco Vice President for Project Management, signed the contract on behalf of the company during a ceremony in Dhahran today. The contract involves construction of full functional support building and facilities together with associated infrastructure and communication connectivity in the Haradh and Hawiyah operational areas. “We constantly work towards achieving Saudi Aramco’s goals and objectives in natural gas production to diversify the Kingdom’s energy mix and to make cleaner energy resources available. Today’s contract is aligned to those aspiration as we endeavor to add strategic value to Saudi Arabia’s hydrocarbon resources. The TCF project will leverage on the Haradh Increment Program, which is considered a catalyst for growth through increasing total gas production by more than one billion standard cubic feet per day. We are glad that a local company is involved in the execution of this major project, in tandem with Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) initiative,” Al-Helal added. Recently, Saudi Aramco signed a number of agreements with several oil and gas service contractors for oil and gas megaprojects designed to enhance the company’s energy sustainability, diversify the economy, expand gas production, and localize domestic content. The agreements are valued at nearly $4.5 billion in total. The agreements involved improving and sustaining gas production from Haradh and Hawiyah fields by reducing choke pressure at the wellhead. Hawiyah Gas Plant (HGP) Expansion Project will provide additional gas processing facilities to process 1,070 Million Standard Cubic Feet per Day (MMSCFD) of raw sweet gas, installing a pipeline network to allow free flowing 290 MMSCFD from Haradh field to Hawiyah Gas Plant.Saudi Aramco’s Yanbu’ Refinery Department (YRD) recently won the prestigious International Green Apple Environment Award for its one-of-a-kind initiative “YRD Flare Optimization by 57%.” The award marks the first time a department in Saudi Aramco has won the award. The initiative was evaluated thoroughly by Green Apple subject matter experts and was ranked by judges as the third best environmental best practice implemented in 2017. Winning an International Green Apple Environment Award for 2017 is aligned with YRD’s vision to become a model refinery by 2020 through the implementation of new technologies and initiatives, thereby enhancing its environmental, energy, and financial portfolios. The Green Apple Environmental Award Program is organized by the Green Organization, which is considered the most prestigious international, independent, nonpolitical, and nonprofit environmental platform in the world. The organization’s main focus is on promoting, rewarding, and sharing best practices for both industrial and non-industrial environmental activities. The flare optimization initiative was achieved by constructing a new jump-over line connecting the normal flare to the sour flare header, and building a control logic to govern the purge gas process between the two flare headers. This has contributed to reducing YRD’s total purge gas rate dramatically from 340 million standard cubic feet per year down to 192 million standard cubic feet per year, which has translated to a revenue generation of $650,000 annually. Furthermore, this initiative has also contributed in limiting the YRD emissions footprint by a total reduction in sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide emissions of 4,500 kilograms (kg)/year, and 6,000 kg/year, respectively. Winning a Green Apple Award is another demonstration of our commitment to implement and maintain best environmental practices, and in line with the global trend of reducing harmful emissions in the refining industry.Saudi Aramco organized and hosted the National Information Technology Academy’s Executive Forum in Dhahran, where participants discussed a number of important topics that aim at developing human capital in the ICT sector and leveraging the role of the academy. The forum was hosted by Yousef Al-Ulyan, Saudi Aramco’s Vice President of Information Technology and Chairman of the academy, who delivered the forum’s opening speech. In addition, Nabil Al-Dabal, General Manager of Training and Development, participated the forum’s panel discussion. The National IT Academy is a not-for-profit organization which has been established by the academy’s founding stakeholders, Saudi Aramco, Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (MCIT), Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC), and Technical and Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC). The forum was attended by executives from the academy, and delegates from the founding stakeholders, partnering companies and organizations. “The National Information Technology Academy aims at equipping Saudi males and females with the required ICT skills through advanced and accelerated training and certification programs to bridge the skills gap in the market and to develop ‘job-ready’ talent pool,” said Al-Ulyan. “This is in line with Saudi Vision 2030 and its strategic objectives to equip Saudi youth with the required skills for jobs of the future, create sustainable job opportunities, and increase female participation in the workforce.” he added. Al-Ulyan said that Saudis make no more than 40% of the total ICT workforce, despite the steady supply of Saudi ICT graduates from vocational institutes and universities in Saudi Arabia and abroad, a fact that presents great opportunities for skilled and trained Saudis. Al-Ulyan participated in signing a number of Memoranda of Understanding (MOU) with key partners to support the National IT Academy. The MOUs were signed between the National IT Academy and Saudi Telecom Company, Al Abdulkarim Holding, Cisco Systems, Huawei, HPE, Wipro, and Baker Hugues, a GE Company.Saudi Aramco has welcomed plans by Schlumberger to develop an industrial manufacturing center within the King Salman Energy Park in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The announcement was made at a ground-breaking ceremony at the Park, where Schlumberger will be a key anchor tenant. The King Salman Energy Park is developed and operated by Saudi Aramco. As Program Sponsor, Sr. Vice President Upstream, Mohammed Al-Qahtani attended the ceremony. He said: “Schlumberger is the ‘first mover’ to come onto the King Salman Energy Park, and we extend our warmest welcome. This initiative underlines Saudi Arabia’s key position as a regional and global energy industry hub. Significantly, Schlumberger is bringing major manufacturing capacity to the Kingdom, with the potential to develop export markets. This presence will attract additional tenants to the Park, bringing the jobs and investment that are crucial to both Saudi Aramco’s iktva development program, and the Kingdom’s Vision 2030.” As Schlumberger expands its manufacturing base within the Kingdom, the industrial manufacturing center will be developed over 500,000 square meters on land allocated for energy-related industries. The first phase is planned to be completed in Q2 2018, which will bring Schlumberger land rig manufacturing to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Paal Kibsgaard, Chairman and CEO of Schlumberger, commented: “The new industrial manufacturing center will collocate our upstream and midstream manufacturing in the Kingdom and complements the footprint Schlumberger has built over many years. We believe our commitment puts Schlumberger in a position to attract the best local talent, to grow within the Kingdom, and to export within the region.” The new center will manufacture products for drilling, exploration and production, as well as midstream.Saudi Aramco has awarded Schlumberger two lump sum contracts for drilling rigs and services for oil and gas wells. Under the contracts, Schlumberger Integrated Drilling Services (IDS) will provide drilling rigs and services for up to 146 gas wells and up to 128 oil wells over three years.   Saudi Aramco’s Sr. Vice President, Upstream, Mohammed Qahtani, said: “Saudi Aramco and Schlumberger are key partners who, under these contracts, will be able to bring innovative technologies to the field, and deploy them in our large-scale operations. We have a great history of success with Schlumberger throughout our 75 year partnership in Saudi Arabia, and we have now set the scene for even greater achievements in the future.”   Schlumberger’s Chairman and CEO, Paal Kibsgaard, said: “Schlumberger is proud and humble to be trusted with delivering lump sum gas and oil wells within the Kingdom. Through our committed teams, advanced technology and Integrated Drilling Services we are looking forward to working in close collaboration with Saudi Aramco to successfully deliver these oil and gas wells.”   The contracts are designed to provide an integrated service to deliver wells, which will increase efficiency levels and improve cost-effectiveness, while maintaining the highest safety standards. In developing the agreements, Saudi Aramco and Schlumberger focused on enhanced processes and the latest technology to ensure safe and efficient operations at all times.  Saudi Aramco participated as a sponsor at the&nbsp;2017 Saudi Arabia Smart Grid (SASG) Conference and Exhibition held on December 12-14, 2017 in Jeddah, under the patronage of H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources. Saudi Aramco’s sponsorship of SASG 2017 stems from a firm commitment to its role as one of the key institutional drivers of growth in the Kingdom and a senior contributor towards achieving the aims of Saudi Vision 2030. As the Kingdom’s premier energy provider, Saudi Aramco exhibited a range of its power systems applications, smart grid technologies and renewables. A significant number of the company’s engineers attended throughout the Conference & Exhibition to present a suite of workshops. In its Exhibition booth, Saudi Aramco showcased examples of its advanced technologies and applications in producing clean energy which include the first wind turbine in Turaif and the cybersecurity gate passes implemented on some of the company’s power plants. During the opening ceremony, Abdulhamid Al-Omair, Manager of Power Systems Engineering, underscored Saudi Aramco’s determination to operate at the cutting edge of power sector innovation and technology. Addressing the assembled experts and exhibitors he said, “When we realized that the global power sector was going to maintain its march towards digitization we decided to take a leading role in this transformation or, at the very least, seek to become a significant player in this area.” He added, “Based upon our belief in the growing impact of digitization on the power sector, Saudi Aramco is in the process of creating a control center designed to enhance and facilitate the implementation of artificial intelligence in the power sector. The system will build complex predictive models and analyze instantaneous data from all over the network. This will provide a robust and reliable forecasting and critical decision-making process which will operate in record time and pave the way for a significant uplift in operational efficiency across the network.” Al-Omair also provided an optimistic assessment of the future integration of energy sources citing energy conservation as a major gain and the future use of 60000 smart devises across the 1000 strong electric power network. During his presentation, Al-Omair explained the precise nature of Saudi Aramco’s continued support for local power sector capabilities. This includes Saudi Aramco’s 10% contribution to power generation in the Kingdom. The company plans to develop these facilities and has started to deploy advanced technologies to increase efficiency in power production with a goal of expanding its power generation projects to reach more than 12,000 megawatts by 2020. As part of the company’s commitment to support wider infrastructure and technology development, Saudi Aramco is promoting the use of advanced technologies, ramping up the development process and supporting partner and main stakeholders in the Kingdom. This commitment is visible through Saudi Aramco’s network of strategic partnerships both in the Kingdom and elsewhere. In addition, Saudi Aramco has developed collaborated projects with government organizations, industrial partners, and academic establishments, including the establishment of the GCC Electrical Testing Laboratory. Elsewhere, Saudi Aramco is developing the national project of clean combustion testing alongside national partners and businesses with the goal of applying and promoting renewable technologies in a concerted effort to enhance energy efficiencies. In similar work, Saudi Aramco worked alongside nine international and local partners to create a national power academy. This collaboration has seen Saudi Aramco develop its Power Systems and Training & Development capacity, in partnership with The Technical and Vocational Training Corporation and the Colleges of Excellence. This partnership has given rise to a new agreement with King Abdullah City for Atomic and Renewable Energy, the Saudi Council of Engineers, the GCC Laboratory, and Bismarck Colleges which aims to enhance the Academy’s vocational and professional training.HRH Prince Saud Bin Nayef Al Saud, Governor of the Eastern Province today inaugurated the 2017 iktva SMEs Forum and Exhibition organized by Saudi Aramco. The inauguration was attended by HRH Prince Ahmed bin Fahad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz, Deputy Governor of the Eastern Province, HE Khalid Al Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources AND Chairman of Saudi Aramco, and Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO, and several executives from major international companies, investors, and business leaders. HRH the Governor of the Eastern Province also attended the signing of 11 agreements and MoUs to implement the 5-year iktva Program which emphasize compliance with its standards to enhance the in-Kingdom total added value of local content. The MOUs were signed with TAQA, Tecnicas Reunidas, SNC Lavalin, Zamil Offshore, Schlumberger (two contracts), Advanced Electronics Company, Saudi Oilfield Processing Company, Baker Hughes, JESCO and the Eastern Province Young Businessmen Council. He then awarded excellence awards to several manufacturers and energy service providers for their efforts and commitment to apply iktva principles. The iktva Excellence Awards went to Schlumberger for ‘Best Overall iktva Performance’, Azmeel Contracting Company for ‘Most Improved iktva Performance’, Arabian Drilling Company for ‘Best in Training & Development’, Halliburton for ‘Best in SME Development’, and winners of the ‘Best SMEs’ award were Global Company for Downstream Industries (GDI), Innosoft, and AZR Technologies. The Forum highlighted the central and vital role of small and medium size enterprises (SMEs) Sector within iktva program, which aims to establish a supply system that relies on local resources in line with international standards to maximize local content to reach 70% by 2021.A proud King smiles — a major milestone in the industrialization of his nation is about to be realized. As the monarch cuts the ceremonial ribbon the energy and excitement in the room is palpable. Saudi Arabia had just taken a giant leap in its industrial development — Berri Gas Plant (BGP) had come online. The year was 1977, and the effects of the royal inauguration by King Khalid ibn ‘Abd Al-’Aziz Al Sa’ud would be felt across the nation. Industrially, the Kingdom had come of age. As it celebrates four decades of service, BGP is as important as ever. A master plan
In 1975 the Saudi government undertook the decision to construct the Master Gas System (MGS) — at the time one of the most ambitious and largest engineering and construction projects ever undertaken by any nation. It was a time of unprecedented growth for both the company and the Kingdom. The Saudi workforce was evolving with qualified engineers and technicians now available to enter the work arena. The MGS would resemble an electricity grid, offering a ready supply of varying forms of gas to domestic customers, and via export, globally. For years, the associated gas that was found in crude oil was not recovered — mainly due to technological and economic factors. But the global market took a shift. Rising energy costs, coupled with energy and conservation concerns, made the requirements for gathering and processing associated gas both practical and profitable. The MGS would be the backbone of a new era in the Kingdom and Aramco had the know-how, the people, and the trust of the government to execute the ambitious program. “Berri Gas Plant, in many ways, is the foundation stone of the new industrial age that occurred in the Kingdom in the late 70s,” says BGP manager Khalid A. Al Harthi. “It was the kick-start, the first facility in the Master Gas System and then others followed, but it was Berri that got the ball rolling,” says Al Harthi.After the successful startup at Berri, other components of the MGS were completed in rapid succession with the commissioning of Shedgum Gas Plant, Ju’aymah Fractionation Plant and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) loading and exporting pier in 1980. A year later saw the operational startup of the East-West Pipeline and ‘Uthmaniyah Gas Plant, followed in 1982 by the commissioning of the Yanbu’ Fractionation Plant and LPG export facilities. The MGS was up and running.Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We are deeply honored that His Royal Highness, the Amir of the Eastern Province, Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz, could be with us for the third year in a row. We are also delighted that His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih – the Minister for Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources – is with us. It shows the importance they both place on iktva. And moving to Dhahran Expo this year shows how this event keeps increasing in importance to all our stakeholders. That’s why yesterday we dedicated one full day just to SMEs, and an exhibition running alongside the forum for the first time. So let me welcome all the business people here today who have come from near and far. Today, I want to reflect on this year’s iktva achievements, the challenges that still lie ahead, and the key role for SMEs in meeting them. However, the strategic significance of iktva in a changing world is less widely known and I would like to focus on that first. For decades, our business partners successfully served our need for materials and services. But despite some local success stories, the majority of our materials and services came from abroad. Yet this is strategically important to us at Saudi Aramco, so continuing to import huge amounts of materials and services at growing levels was no longer tenable. Furthermore, wider global developments are fueling a new logic in strategic international investments. Economic growth rates in developing nations are twice those of developed nations, while population growth is almost entirely occurring in the developing world. In many cases, between 50 and 75 percent of the sales of industrial companies are now outside their home markets, and this situation is likely to intensify. As a result, the long-term prosperity of developing nations is seen as critical to the long-term success of major global corporations. They increasingly appreciate the wisdom of locating where a large share of future business is going to be, transferring technology, and developing local talent. In short, they are wisely following the growth, to allow those relationships to flourish. That is why we launched our iktva program two years ago, and made it a formal requirement of doing business with Saudi Aramco. We were also clear that iktva had to be a win-win for our suppliers too. As I said two years ago, Saudi Aramco expected to spend more than 1 trillion Saudi riyals over the next decade; and that has not changed. But companies with a local presence are winning increasingly larger shares of that huge amount of business.  And they are increasingly taking advantage of the industrial growth in a wider range of sectors such as chemicals and renewables, automotive and defense, whose supply chains tend to overlap. In fact, if you want to win business in sectors like these, then the increasingly clear reality for international companies is that your regional hub will be right here in Saudi Arabia.  To develop a real competitive advantage here means locating here. But doing so will also protect significant parts of your business back home – and that is a point I want to stress. In return, we are working with the government to improve the enabling environment – from cutting red tape to promoting economic and industrial diversification through our work on anchor projects. Indeed, as part of the government’s national capacity building efforts, I am delighted to note that we are now over half-way to our goal of 28 national training centers by 2030. That progress has been more than matched by record breaking iktva results on the ground once again this year. In the manufacturing sector alone, half of our goods now come from local manufacturers. And I am delighted to announce that the overall iktva score now stands at 45%. So our iktva strategy is working on multiple fronts as the logic beds in. Later this morning, the iktva Excellence Awards will recognize some truly great achievements in 2017. Yet some significant gaps remain. For example, I cannot overemphasize the importance of establishing local R&D to support localized industries on a long-term basis. But, to be candid, the biggest gap is a flourishing SME sector. In OECD nations, SMEs provide 50 to 65 percent of the value added on average. They account for approximately 70% of employment. They are also the engine of major innovation for economic growth and development. And they enjoy greater proximity to their customers, greater knowledge of their markets, and far greater agility to create differentiated products. In other words, they are the rock on which developed nations’ economies, industrial leadership, and distinct competitive advantage is built. Yet, here in the Kingdom, SMEs currently contribute just 20% to GDP, less than half of industrialized nations. That’s why Saudi Vision 2030 has set an initial target of moving their contribution from 20% to 35%.  And to help them deal with regulatory requirements, financing needs, research requirements, and talent development, the Kingdom recently created the General Authority for SMEs. For us at Saudi Aramco, our targets for SMEs are equally clear, and fundamentally driven by commercial considerations. Unless we leverage the full power of SMEs we will never reach our headline iktva targets. By contrast, a quality-driven, efficient, and locally accessible SME base will increase the reliability of our plants and operations, intensify the management of our costs by optimizing inventories, and provide even greater reliability for our customers around the world. So as I told SMEs yesterday, we have already identified 140 SME development opportunities, across 10 industrial segments, worth around 60 billion Saudi riyals. These opportunities include growth within the chemicals conversion parks at Sadara on the Arabian Gulf and PetroRabigh on the Red Sea coast. And they are expected to help create over 40,000 new jobs, and potentially add around 30 billion Saudi riyals to the Kingdom’s annual GDP. Most of all, we want 70 percent of those 1 trillion riyals I mentioned earlier to be spent locally. And we want a large portion of these opportunities to fall to locally-based SMEs who will power us all towards our ultimate, shared iktva targets. Because, Ladies and Gentlemen, iktva is all about the outcome. The historic transformation of Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom is about to unleash massive opportunities here for global investors in a range of key sectors. The closer you are to those opportunities, the deeper the business relationship you will have with us, and the brighter your future will be. So join us, and let’s maximize the value from every riyal we spend here in the Kingdom, while sharing the enormous benefits with our respective shareholders, and the communities we are proud to serve. Thank you.Saudi Aramco today launched its annual flagship localization event, the iktva SMEs Forum and Exhibition 2017, with an agenda designed to raise the bar with a set of over 140 investment opportunities in localization valued at over $16 billion in several industrial and business sectors across the Saudi Arabian energy sector. In welcome remarks before an audience of over 2,300 delegates from 30 countries, Saudi Aramco President & CEO Amin H. Nasser highlighted the iktva program and the opportunities it offers for a localized supply chain. Nasser said that iktva aims to deliver a world-class, locally sourced supply chain in the Kingdom with an overarching objective of achieving 70% of locally supplied content by 2021. Nasser said the two-day forum provides a platform for companies interested in establishing operations in Saudi Arabia to engage with the Kingdom’s energy sector stakeholders and their key suppliers. He highlighted the important role of small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in driving value creation and innovation in the localization process. He said: “SMEs are the engine of innovation for economic growth and development. They have the agility, the know-how, the market expertise, and the products the oil and gas industry requires. Yet, SMEs currently contribute just 20% to our GDP, which is less than half of industrialized economies. That is why Saudi Vision 2030 recognizes the huge potential of SMEs, and has set an initial target of moving their contribution from 20% to 35%.”The forum agenda was enhanced by a suite of high-level seminars and workshops by Saudi and international business leaders addressing the Kingdom’s future economic growth aspirations as stated in Vision 2030. The workshops showcased investment opportunities for the localization of specific equipment or services within the Saudi Arabian energy sector and provided details of the opportunity, anticipated market size, sources of demand and high-level technical requirements needed to close the supply chain gap. The workshops also allowed investors to interact with key players related to each opportunity through an open question and answer session and one-on-one engagements during and after the session. There were 9 workshops with each presenting between 7 to 10 specific opportunities. Among the topics covered in the seminars are: Doing business in Saudi Arabia, mastering innovation, incubators and ready-made factories, iktva overview for SMEs, Saudi Aramco’s supplier registration process, IR 4.0: Implications for the Saudi energy sector, investment and funding for SMEs, digital procurement, and local workforce development and Saudization. The workshops and seminars were attended by executives and experts from several leading energy sector companies from Saudi Arabia and around the world, active in oilfield services, oilfield equipment, chemicals, piping, investment and funding firms, and general manufacturing and related services. Key Saudi stakeholders were also in attendance, including the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA), General Authority for Small and Medium Enterprises (GASME), Dhahran Techno Valley Corporation (DTVC), Saudi Industrial Property Authority (MODON), Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu, Saline Water Conversation Company (SWCC), Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF), and Saudi Industrial Development Fund (SIDF). For a detailed agenda and more information, please visit iktva.saAs-Salam Alyekom Wa Rahmat Allah Wa Baraktu, and good morning. Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to welcome you all to this two-day forum and exhibition. Thank you for coming from near and far to show your interest in the tremendous business opportunities being unleashed by the historic transformation of Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom. As you know, we are building a world-class supply chain ecosystem to service Saudi Aramco’s massive and growing needs. Because an efficient and locally accessible ecosystem increases the reliability of our plants and operations; intensifies the management of our costs by optimizing inventories; and means even greater reliability for our customers around the world. It will also increasingly service a wider range of industries being created by the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 – from chemicals and automotive to renewables and defense. Driving that forward is iktva. We are two years into the program, and tomorrow I will be reflecting on the significant progress we have achieved once again this year. In short, we have reached a point where our strategic suppliers and partners understand what iktva is; their plans are firmly in place; the challenges they face are being addressed through continuous dialogue; and our joint efforts are now paying real dividends to both sides. But we have always known that we will not reach our headline iktva target – of 70% oil and gas supply chain localization by 2021 – without an inspiring and involving an ambitious and innovative SME sector. As the SMEs with us today know very well, you are the rock on which developed nations’ economies, industrial leadership, and competitive advantage is built. You are also the engine of major innovation for economic growth and development, with your internal environment naturally better suited to creativity and translating it into value. And you enjoy greater proximity to your customers, greater knowledge of your markets, and far greater agility to create differentiated products that best meet the needs of the oil and gas industry. All of this gives you a distinct competitive advantage. Yet, here in the Kingdom, SMEs currently contribute just 20% to our GDP, which is less than half of industrialized economies. That is why Vision 2030 recognizes the huge potential of SMEs, and has set an initial target of moving their contribution from 20% to 35%.  Obviously, both large industrial enterprises and SMEs have a complementary role to play in getting us there. And we at Saudi Aramco wanted to show that we are playing our part in promoting SMEs as part of taking iktva to the next level. That’s why we moved to a bigger venue this year – Dhahran Expo – and added an additional day, dedicated to you: our suppliers’ suppliers. We want to connect international SMEs with our strategic suppliers and local SMEs to create real business partnerships that support the goals of iktva, as well as deliver a well-earned return on your investments. We have already identified 140 SME development opportunities, across 10 industrial segments, worth around 60 billion Saudi riyals. These opportunities include growth within the chemicals conversion parks at Sadara on the Arabian Gulf and PetroRabigh on the Red Sea coast. And they are expected to help create over 40,000 new jobs, and potentially add around 30 billion riyals to the Kingdom’s annual GDP. Crucially, as I said when we launched iktva two years ago, Saudi Aramco is expected to spend more than 1 trillion Saudi riyals over the next decade. That has not changed, and we still want to see 70 percent of those riyals being spent locally. And we want a large portion of these opportunities to fall to locally-based SMEs who will power us towards our ultimate, shared iktva goals. That’s the significant value proposition on offer from Saudi Aramco to international SMEs who choose to invest here in the Kingdom. Of course, multiple Kingdom organizations like SAGIA and local Chambers of Commerce also stand ready to assist you in settling here and calling the Kingdom your second home. And you only have to look at Vision 2030 to see that support for the SMEs comes from the highest levels in the Government. But to create a truly thriving SME sector – that offers quality products as well as quantity – the Government recently established an exclusive General Authority for SMEs to enable their aggressive growth. Their mission is to address concerns, facilitate investments and growth, and make it as easy as possible for SMEs like you to do business here so your full potential can be unleashed. So please join me in welcoming our two keynote speakers:  Thank you.
Saudi Aramco will host an invitation-only forum for key suppliers on December 12-13, 2017 in Dammam, Saudi Arabia. The 2017 iktva SME Forum & Exhibition is Saudi Aramco’s principal engagement event with valued suppliers who form our energy sector ecosystem. Through iktva, Saudi Aramco is developing a world-class supply chain that’s locally accessible, reliable and innovative to meet its needs as the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals company. The forum, which will be attended by investors from 35 countries, will highlight Saudi Aramco vision for the future and outline business opportunities, focused on developing an accessible, reliable, and efficient supply chain. The objective is to bridge gaps in the energy sector supply chain that fosters the development of competitive industrial clusters. New investment opportunities will be shared for local value creation that broaden the base of goods and services, especially for Saudi small and medium size enterprises, who will be participating in the iktva forum for the first time. This year’s forum will provide a platform for all companies interested in establishing operations in Saudi Arabia to engage with the kingdom’s energy sector stakeholders and their key suppliers. The forum will cover topics such as integration of supply chains, knowledge economy, human capital development, access to finance, market access, the legal and regulatory environment, SMEs, and infrastructure benefits. The iktva program was developed by Saudi Aramco through consultation and collaboration with its national and international supplier partners. For more information, please visit iktva.saAbdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco’s senior vice president of Downstream, recently officiated the inauguration ceremony of Saudi Aramco Trading Singapore (SATS). The expansion of Aramco Trading in Singapore is part of Aramco’s strategy to optimize value across the whole oil and products chain, servicing our markets and customers, as well as support Saudi Aramco’s expanding refining operations and petrochemical output.
 Oil product demand in Asia Pacific has grown over the past decade to reach 32.6 million barrels per day (bpd) in 2016, and Wood Mackenzie forecast that it will continue to grow based on an average Gross Domestic Product growth of 3.7% between 2016 and 2035. Demand will reach about 41 million bpd in 2035. China and India is forecast to account for over 75%, or 7 million bpd, of the demand growth in Asia Pacific. According to Wood MacKenzie, cumulatively, demand from the Southeast Asian economies is forecast to increase by 2.3 million bpd between 2015 and 2035. Transport fuel demand will be the main driver of oil demand growth, accounting for around 66% of overall demand increase. The petrochemicals sector will also be a significant contributor to regional oil demand. Currently the largest physical oil trading hub and price discovery center in Asia, Singapore also has the largest concentration of oil storage in Asia, with 10 million cubic meters of independent oil storage capacity.  Home to over 80% of the top 30 oil and gas companies, Singapore owns the world’s largest bunkering port.
Aramco Trading Company was established in October 2010 as a wholly owned subsidiary of Saudi Aramco that trades refined, liquid chemical, and polymer products.  Officially launched in January 2012, Aramco Trading is the global integrated platform for Saudi Aramco’s downstream assets, as well as for our international partners. Aramco Trading is a key player in the region, supplying to Europe, the Middle East, Africa, the Americas, Asia, and the Indian subcontinent.The completion of Saudi Aramco’s Jazan refinery and terminal mega-project will herald the beginning of a historic new economic era for both the region and the Kingdom, president and CEO Amin Nasser said during a visit last week. The company’s corporate management joined Nasser on a site visit to receive the latest update on progress at the Jazan Economic City (JEC) and refinery and terminal mega-projects. They also met with HRH Prince Mohammed ibn Nasser ibn Abd’ Al-’Aziz Al-Sa’ud, governor of the Jazan Region. Commissioning activities for the complex will commence by mid-2018, and full operation will be achieved by 2019.Saudi Aramco’s projects in Jazan are designed to enable an industrial springboard to achieve the vision of a diversified economy under the framework of the Kingdom’s strategic Vision 2030 economic road map. The 106-square-kilometer JEC will host the refinery complex as its anchor tenant and is viewed as pivotal to delivering much-needed economic transformation in the Jazan region and, at the same time, attract foreign investment. At the Jazan Project Management office, corporate management received a comprehensive progress update by Khalid S. Al-Gazlan, manager of the Jazan Integrated Gasification Combined Cycle (IGCC) Projects Department. Nasser and the corporate management team had an opportunity to discuss the project and underlined their continued support for the work of the Jazan project management team.Abdullah A. Al-Deraibi, manager of the Jazan Refinery Operations Department, provided an update on the operational readiness of the Jazan Refinery Complex, while director Abdulatif S. Abdulhadi gave an update on the progress of the JEC. Nasser paid tribute to the efforts of the Jazan management team for addressing and overcoming several challenges as the program accelerates toward completion. “Jazan is a major project, considering the size of other facilities that we have built, and we have good teams working here to deliver the project successfully.” Nasser cited the company’s track record in project management, highlighting the Wasit Gas Plant and the facilities of Shaybah in the depths of the Rub’ al-Khali (Empty Quarter).“It’s a shared effort,” Nasser said. “We are in this together; we need to continue to move ahead as we are in the midst of creating a new and thriving era in Jazan. We are creating history, and five years from now, we will see a different Jazan.” He expressed his appreciation to company employees for their sacrifices. “You are making a difference in an area which is getting transformed into a hub for economic and trading activities aligned with the Kingdom’s broad objective to generate growth and development and Saudi Aramco’s value-creation efforts across its business operations,” he said. The corporate management delegation also toured the under-construction port, where massive dredgers could be seen at work and were briefed on the progress of a wide range of complex engineering and construction packages that will be integrated to reach the processing capacity of more than 400,000 bpd of crude oil — providing fuel for domestic and international customers. The complex will be entirely self-sufficient and provide power to locally owned manufacturing and service companies.Nabilah M. Al-Tunisi, Saudi Aramco’s chief engineer, set her focus on the future, sharing news of the company’s direction at the Arab Conference at Harvard 2017. Her keynote address, “Preparing for Tomorrow,” attracted prominent politicians, business professionals, and civic leaders, as well as students from colleges across the region.  The event is the largest Arab conference in the United States, held on the campus of the oldest university in the United States. “Energy is central to all that we do,” Al-Tunisi said, adding that Saudi Aramco is preparing for tomorrow in ways that are both significant and progressive, and at the same time, the many recent achievements in Saudi Arabia are contributing to an exciting future. Looking at data from independent global sources, including the International Energy Agency, she pointed to the current and future demand growth for oil that, coupled with population growth, compels Saudi Aramco to continue a robust oil and gas investment strategy. She also considered the challenge of electricity access in which, without the right energy resources, hundreds of millions of people may be without access by 2030. If, as projected, natural gas becomes the primary source of energy for electricity in the future, it’s clear that “a broad mix of energy sources are going to be needed.” At the same time, energy efficiency must figure prominently in any strategy and will substantially impact consumers — making a good comprehensive management program a must, she said. In her area of specialty as chief engineer, Al-Tunisi talked about the corporate engineering standards that contribute to making Saudi Aramco’s operations and facilities among the safest and most reliable. Quality management, corporate innovation, and knowledge management, as well as a board of engineers, are key to creating a culture of engineering excellence, said Al-Tunisi. She noted the company takes a long-term strategic approach and is committed to meeting future energy demand by investing in new technologies and collaborations to develop innovative technologies and practices. She then turned her attention to Saudi Arabia, highlighting the special economic zones, including King Abdullah Financial City in Riyadh and its prestigious development, which serves as an example of the Kingdom’s growth and progress. She also spoke of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology and its platform for promoting innovative startups in Saudi Arabia — which is seeing significant success in the five years since its inception. She highlighted Saudi Aramco’s investments in startups and the encouragement and mentorship the company offers to entrepreneurs with great ideas. A question-and-answer session drew questions about technology and creating innovative cultures, as well as Al-Tunisi’s experience working for Saudi Aramco. “It’s very exciting,” she replied. “At Saudi Aramco, what prevails, what makes you successful, is substance, experience, and hard work.”Saudi Aramco and SABIC have signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) to develop a fully integrated crude oil to chemicals (COTC) complex in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, which governs the execution of the Front End Engineering Design (FEED) before a final investment decision is made. The COTC complex is expected to process 400,000 barrels per day of crude oil, which will produce approximately 9 million tons of chemicals and base oils annually and is expected to start operations in 2025. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said, “This project converges the commercial and strategic interests of both Saudi Aramco and SABIC, while reinforcing Saudi Aramco’s efforts to optimize the investment of our petroleum resources. COTC will also help expand our downstream portfolio, reducing our focus on the transportation sector and securing new and promising commercial opportunities.” SABIC Vice Chairman and CEO Yousef Abdullah Al-Benyan said: "This venture will contribute to the realization of one of the major aspirations of Saudi Vision 2030, namely achieving economic prosperity by boosting our investment capacity, diversifying the economy and creating jobs for Saudi nationals. It will help strengthen our economic growth and attract world-class quality investments thanks to our unique and strategic geographic location." Al-Benyan added: "Today is a historic day, marking the complementary nature of the relationship between SABIC and Saudi Aramco because it is the first time the two largest economic entities in Saudi Arabia jointly enter into a strategic partnership to achieve a pioneering and innovative new technology. Once completed, this project will not only be the largest crude oil to chemicals complex in the world, it will also set a new competitive threshold thanks to the project's mass scale and the benefits derived from our joint collaboration. The project will, therefore, help achieve the respective growth ambitions of Sabic and Saudi Aramco and further establishes the Kingdom as one of the pioneers in the petrochemicals industry." This announcement marks a historic alliance between the two largest Saudi global entities, in addition to solidifying the Kingdom’s position as a global leader in chemicals by substantially increasing production and further maximizing value across the entire hydrocarbons chain through integration. The COTC complex will be constructed based on an innovative configuration that achieves crude oil to chemicals conversion that is unprecedented in the industry. This MoU follows the Heads of Agreement (HoA) signed in June 2016 between the two companies, which governed the feasibility study for the development of a fully integrated petrochemicals complex in the Kingdom. A Saudi team developed innovative COTC configurations derived from best-in-class refining and chemical technologies. The complex is expected to create an estimated 30,000 direct and indirect jobs, further stimulating the Kingdom’s economic diversification. By 2030 the COTC complex is expected to have 1.5% impact on the Kingdom’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP), with investments being shared equally by both companies. Consistent with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 economic transformation program, this project will support the creation of a world-leading downstream sector in Saudi Arabia, built on four key drivers: maximizing value from the Kingdom’s crude oil production via integration across the hydrocarbon chain; enabling the creation of conversion industries to produce semi-finished and finished goods to help diversify the economy; developing advanced technologies and innovation; and enabling sustainable development in alignment with the Kingdom’s National Transformation Program.Under the patronage of HRH Prince Faysal ibn Bandar ibn Abd’ Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, governor of Riyadh, Saudi Aramco participated in the second International Asbar World Forum. Muhammad M. Al Saggaf, senior vice president of Operations and Business Services, affirmed in remarks during the opening ceremony Saudi Aramco’s strong belief in the role creativity and innovation play as a driving force toward progress and prosperity. “Saudi Aramco is pleased to continue our strategic partnership with this great forum after the success it achieved in its first session,” Al Saggaf said. With 11 sessions and more than 60 speakers, the forum is a framework for innovation and to spur discussions that result in policies and initiatives while using information and communication technology to reduce the cost of economic activities. Key topics are demand, innovation and policies, organizations and knowledge, and acceleration toward a knowledge society. When discussing Saudi Aramco’s support of creativity and innovation, Al Saggaf made note of the company’s model over the past several years. “This model is based on four main pillars. First is supporting the innovation culture and influencing young people’s thinking patterns by guiding them toward creativity. Second is supporting entrepreneurship. Third is sustainable investment in research and development. And last, but not least, is enriching and empowering our human potential,” he said. “Saudi Aramco’s efforts to support a culture of innovation yields positive results,” he continued. “This was particularly reflected in the number of granted patents, which have increased by twentyfold in less than 10 years — from only nine patents in 2009 to 175 patents last year. This placed the company in third position among international oil companies — and we strive to reach first place in the next three years.” Al Saggaf also spoke about the Saudi Aramco Center for Entrepreneurship “Wa’ed,” noting that it acted as an incubator for young peoples’ ideas and innovations across various sectors. “Since its inception, the center has allocated about SR278 million to support 96 companies,” he said. He also shared with attendees the fact that Saudi Aramco had initiated the In-Kingdom Total Value Add program through which the company looks to achieve continuous growth in local content in goods and services, to double the percentage from 35% to 70% by 2021. In addition, the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture was a strategic partner in the forum through a lecture and presentation titled “iThra Center Experience ... from an Idea to Reality.” The Center also had an interactive exhibition showcasing its most important initiatives and programs. Saudi Aramco participated as a strategic partner in the 12th Professional Development Conference & Exhibition, organized in coordination with the American Society of Safety Engineers – Middle East Chapter (ASSE - MEC) to discuss a number of subjects in safety, industrial security, and environmental protection from Nov. 19 - 23 under the patronage of HE Lt. Gen Sheikh Rashid bin Abdullah Al Khalifa, Bahrain Minister of Interior, at the Gulf Convention Center in Bahrain. Mr. Bader F. Al Qadran, Saudi Aramco Executive Director of Safety and Industrial Security, spoke about the important role of the human factor in ensuring safety and improving reliability. “The safety and security of our people and our industries are of great importance to both governments and our businesses. Safety is no longer just about meeting basic standards and requirements; it’s about the beliefs that must be instilled in people’s hearts and minds that will translate into their daily actions and behaviors,” he said. Mr. Al Qadran also indicated the leading role of Saudi Aramco in managing industrial security and said, “Saudi Aramco has always promoted a culture of excellence, and its strong commitment to the safety of its people, facilities, and communities, resulted in the gradual maturing of safety management systems and guidelines, as well as engineering standards and codes, to a world-class level that allowed the company to achieve the safety records it holds today.” The conference provided a platform to discuss the challenges facing governments and companies in ensuring safety and industrial and environmental security around the globe, especially in the Middle East. Leaders and professionals from government organizations, academic institutions, and oil and gas industries addressed those challenges by sharing their experiences and insights from using the latest innovative techniques developed in this field. The conference covered all aspects related to the industrial security and environmental protection of oil and gas industries, in addition to the safety of people working in this field. Participants and attendees discussed several topics including risk management, the security of manufacturing industries, chemical materials storage facilities, and information security. This conference comes in line with Saudi Aramco’s safety strategy where the company is keen to communicate its efforts in maintaining the safety and security of all of its facilities, as well as its information security programs with all employees and stakeholders.With an eye on empowering and engaging young employees, Saudi Aramco’s EXPEC Advanced Research Center (ARC) has launched several development programs over recent years targeting niche groups such as young researchers and women employees with the goal of expanding their skill sets. The latest initiative, incorporated into the department’s umbrella talent program, is tailored for technicians. As a significant population of laboratory employees, technicians play a pivotal role in the success of technology research and development, testing and developing solutions in the laboratories. The EXPEC ARC Technician Development Program was created to address both technician development and improving management’s soft skills to better engage and empower employees. The following showcase examples of the impact of the program and how technicians contribute to the Company’s success.Saudi Aramco participated as a strategic sponsor in the Saudi Supply Chain Conference held in Riyadh on November 13-14, 2017 at Al-Faisaliah Hotel. The event was organized by the Ministry of Transportation, under the patronage of HE Dr. Nabeel Al-Amudi. Ahmad A. Al-Saadi, Saudi Aramco Senior Vice-President, Technical Services, delivered a keynote at the opening ceremony. He said that Saudi Aramco is bringing expertise in managing the most complex hydrocarbon delivery chain in the world, to the commodities and services domain to achieve supply chain excellence, adding that Saudi Aramco is focusing on three key strategies: Cultivating the supply chain ecosystem, leveraging technology and innovation, and promoting localization. Describing the role of Saudi Aramco's Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling Operations (OSPAS) control center, Al-Saadi said that "OSPAS monitors our entire hydrocarbon supply chain ecosystem using a sophisticated SAP technology based platform that allows integrating our mid and long term planning and scheduling activities, track the production from all our domestic refining and gas operations facilities, manage the inventories at domestic and international storage facilities using terminal management systems, and also utilizes GPS technology to track the movement of trucks and oil tankers in the transport of our products." To further strengthen the Kingdom’s capabilities and take full advantage of its unique position, Saudi Aramco has been working with various local and international entities to grow its supply chain ecosystem. For example, Saudi Aramco has partnered with Bahri, Hyundai Heavy Industries, and Campbell in the development of King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services. Saudi Aramco has always viewed technology as a key enabler to achieve highest levels of productivity in our supply chain operations. Al-Saadi said: "Perhaps our most significant step towards leveraging technology and achieving supply chain excellence is our new eMarketplace initiative. eMarketplace is an innovative Business-to-Business (B2B) collaborative framework to promote trading among business partners to serve the whole Kingdom, and deliver core capabilities across the Supply Chain." The main building block of Saudi Aramco's localization strategy is the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) program. A flagship program that was launched two years ago to develop “in Kingdom” services and manufacturing capabilities. IKTVA is defined as the added value brought to the Kingdom by a supplier, and is measured by the amount of spend in areas covering goods and services, training and employing Saudi nationals, research and development, as well as helping develop the capabilities of local suppliers. Al-Saadi said: "With IKTVA, we have established the mechanism to institutionalize local content at the heart of our supply chain processes, and made it a requirement for doing business with Saudi Aramco going forward. A key enabler for this effort was the establishment of the Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship center, or Wa’ed, to help in turning innovative business ideas into established small to medium enterprises, through financing and incubating businesses in Saudi Arabia in various sectors relevant to our business and the society." Saudi Aramco's Vice President, Procurement and Supply Chain Management Abdulaziz Al-Abdulkarim also participated in a panel discussion entitled "SCM Developments in the Kingdom on the Way to Reach out Vision 2030." Saudi Aramco today signed agreements with several oil and gas service contractors for oil and gas megaprojects designed to enhance the company’s energy sustainability, diversify the economy, expand gas production, and localize domestic content. The agreements are valued at nearly $4.5 billion in total. Eight agreements were signed, including three agreements with Madrid-based Técnicas Reunidas under the Gas Compression Program in the Southern Area. The project will improve and sustain gas production from Haradh and Hawiyah fields for the next 20 years by bringing an additional 1 billion standard cubic feet per day (scfd). The Hawiyah Gas Plant (HGP) Expansion Project will provide additional gas processing facilities to process raw sweet gas, to efficiently meet the Kingdom's energy demand. The contract will be awarded to the Italian firm SNAMPROGETTI (Saipem). Other agreements signed today cover theFree Flow Pipeline Contract for Haradh and Hawiyah (with China Petroleum Pipelines Company);engineering and project management services for the Zuluf Field Development Program (with Jacobs Engineering Inc.); the Pipeline and Trunk line Project of Safaniyah Field (with Abu Dhabi-based National Petroleum Construction Company (NPCC); and the Slipover Platforms and Electrical Distribution Platform Project in Safaniyah Field (with McDermott Middle East). Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said: “These agreements we signed are part of our natural gas expansion, as we add about 1 billion standard cubic feet per day (scfd). This reflects our commitment to introducing new supplies of clean-burning natural gas. These new supplies will help reduce domestic reliance on liquid fuels for power generation, enable increased liquids exports, provide feedstock to petrochemical industries, and reduce carbon emissions.” Nasser added: “Investments like these help secure Saudi Aramco’s preeminent position as a reliable supplier of energy domestically and to the world. They also reflect our concerted effort, as stated in Saudi Vision 2030, to diversify our economy, promote local manufacturing, support a sustainable environment, and strengthen our business and investment climate with the domestic private sector through fruitful international partnerships.”
The Gas Compression Program in Southern Area provides for improving and sustaining gas production from Haradh and Hawiyah fields by reducing choke pressure at the wellhead to 300 pounds per square inch gauge (psig). The program will extend plateau life at the same production rates for both fields for the next 20 years. The program will also provide for boosting the production by around 1.3 billion standard cubic feet per day supplementing sales gas and condensate production. The program scope includes installing gas compression facilities, liquid separation stations and transmission lines to Haradh and Hawiyah Gas Plant along with expanding the existing gas gathering pipeline network. The execution of all three contracts will be awarded to Técnicas Reunidas (TR) on an LSTK basis. Engineering and Procurement services will be carried out from the contractor’s headquarters in Madrid, Spain. Hawiyah Gas Plant (HGP) Expansion Project will provide additional gas processing facilities to process 1,070 Million Standard Cubic Feet per Day (MMSCFD) of raw sweet gas to efficiently meet the Kingdom's energy demand. The scope mainly includes Inlet Facilities, two new Gas Treatment Trains, Dehydration and Dew Point Control facilities, two Sales Gas Compression units, High & Low Pressure Flare and Flare Recovery systems, Steam Turbine Generation Unit, expansion of Electrical and Non-Electrical Utilities in addition to four new Industrial Support Buildings. The LSTK Contract will be awarded to the Italian EPC firm, SNAMPROGETTI (Saipem). The new gas processing facilities will be on stream by June 2021. Once completed, the project will increase the total production at HGP to approximately 3,860 MMSCFD, and will make it one of the largest gas processing facilities in the world. The Free Flow Pipelines Packages allows for an early start of the Haradh Gas Increment Program. It provides for installing around 450 kilometers of pipeline network by early 2019 in order to allow for free flowing 290 MMSCFD from Haradh field to Hawiyah Gas Plant to ensure a sustained gas production from Haradh and Hawiyah fields until the completion of the compression plants. The scope of this contract has been awarded to China Petroleum Pipelines (CPP) Company based on a Lump Sum Procure Build (LSPB) basis. The Zuluf program will provide facilities to process 600 MBCD of Arab heavy crude oil from Zuluf offshore field. The scope of work includes water injection and oil wellhead platforms, tie-in platforms, trunk lines and flowlines in addition to 600 MBCD Onshore Central Processing Facilities which will contain a new Gas/Oil Separation Plant, Gas Compression Facilities and new water injection plants. The stabilized crude oil will be transported to Ju’aymah terminal via new downstream pipelines. The separated gas and condensate streams will be transported to the proposed Tanajib Gas Plant via new pipelines. The contract for engineering and project management services for the Zuluf program will be awarded to Jacobs Engineering Inc. This project provides for the Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Installation (EPCI) of one Tie in Platform (jacket and deck) to serve as an additional gathering hub for future oil wellhead platforms in Safaniyah field. It will also provide an additional power supply for the Safaniya Field via 20 kms of subsea cable. Also, the project will install 30” x 25.5 km long concrete weight coated trunk line (TL), 14 pipeline between the new TP-21 and the onshore Safaniya GOSP-1. The Abu Dhabi-based National Petroleum Construction Company (NPCC) will be executing the two-year work under the guidance of Saudi Aramco’s Offshore Project Department. The project provides for Engineering, Procurement, Construction and Installation of 10 new Slipover Platforms in the South Safaniya Field. This project is designed to enhance the production of crude oil in Safaniyah Field. The project will also install a new Electrical Distribution Platform (EDP) which will serve as an offshore power substation, and will supply the 10 new slipover platforms with electricity to power the electrical submersible pumps on each facility. McDermott Middle East (Dubai) will be executing the three-year project under the guidance of Saudi Aramco’s Offshore Projects Department.
Saudi Aramco showcased today a strategic model for supporting the contracting industry at Asharqia Economic Forum 2017. The event kicked off on Wednesday evening at Sheraton Hotel in Dammam under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz, Amir of the Eastern Province. The event promotes the industry’s partnership to foster the national economy and set the Kingdom on a sustainable growth trajectory while highlighting the policies and plans to drive the national economic base diversification as well as develop ways to meet the challenges faced by the industry. Ahmad A. Al-Sa’adi, Senior Vice President of Technical Services, took part in a panel session titled “Construction sustainability opportunities: Mechanisms of support of the contracting business by major companies.” He pointed out that Saudi Aramco’s strategy to support the contracting industry, not only aims at meeting the company’s current and future business needs, but also demonstrates its keen efforts to instill the value of citizenship through effective contribution to fulfill Vision 2030. Al-Sa’adi presented a strategic model, which represents a continuation of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to support the Kingdom’s development trajectory especially at this time when all stakeholders are required to capitalize on all available capabilities and resources to ensure the fulfillment of Vision 2030’s goals and objectives. In the panel discussion, Al-Sa’adi identified four key elements underlying the company’s strategic model to support the national contracting and construction industries. First: Development of an integrated system for the management and execution of projects. Saudi Aramco has developed work mechanisms, management systems and methods and innovative practices to execute projects, including planning, engineering, supply chain management, and construction. For instance, Saudi Aramco, in cooperation with King Fahd University for Petroleum and Minerals, has set up a chapter of the Construction Industry Institute (CII) to serve as a platform for acquiring world-class experience and developing professional practices in this crucial sector. In doing so, the company resorts to its rich legacy of technical, engineering and planning expertise and an integrated system handled by Project Management, a major Admin Area at Saudi Aramco. Second: Developing and empowering Saudi professionals. The strategic partnership recently concluded with the Technical and Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC) resulted in establishing many specialized technical institutes such as Maharat Training and Employment Institute, Inspection Technology and Quality Assurance National Institute-ITQAN, the National Industrial Training Institute - NITI and Saudi Technical Institute for Oil Services, etc. Saudi Aramco is planning to continue its efforts to establish a total of 18 training centers and institutes across the Kingdom by 2020, as it is fully aware that the Saudization of quality jobs in this sector will have a positive impact on the national economy. Third: Transferring, localizing and developing modern technologies and engineering consulting. In this respect, Saudi Aramco has played an active part in establishing fruitful cooperation relationships between world-class engineering companies and their counterparts in the Kingdom. Consequently, alliances have been formed to transfer and localize world-class engineering expertise and capabilities, to brush up Saudi engineers’ skills and to upgrade project performance criteria. As a whole, these efforts will bolster the objectives of the construction technology transfer and localization, which are part of 2020 National Transformation Program initiatives. Fourth: Endorsing the contracting sector’s sustainability and development through realizing domestically sustainable growth of materials, and goods and services. Saudi Aramco has launched its In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, which aims to double the current 35% sustainable growth of the domestic content of goods and services to 70% by 2021. Domestic content development will strengthen the credibility of the Company’s supply chain and further contribute to value creation, not only for the contracting sector but also for the national economy as a whole. Al-Sa’adi noted that the contracting sector represents around 6% of Saudi gross domestic product with a business volume worth SR Billion 300-350. However, the challenges faced by this sector negatively reflected upon the performance of the projects. According to forecasts, the sector is approaching towards a steady growth to keep pace with the Kingdom’s industrial, service and housing expansion projects. This confirms the importance of supporting the sector by all development partners, particularly the Kingdom’s lead companies to ensure its development and the overcoming of challenges and obstacles.Oil and Gas Middle East and Refining and Petrochemicals Middle East recently held its eighth annual award ceremony to recognize excellence in Middle East upstream and downstream industries. Abeer Olayan, a petroleum scientist at the EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) who develops new materials for drilling fluids and cementing, was recognized for her outstanding contributions to the oil and gas industry. Of the 12 companies and individuals that were awarded this year, Saudi Aramco received three awards and three honorable mentions across different categories.
Abeer Olayan, is the recipient of the MIT Ibn Khaldun Fellowship for Saudi Arabian Women (initiated by HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, and Chairman of the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors) for female Ph.D. holders in universities Kingdomwide. In her work to develop chemical products utilizing natural resources, Olayan collaborates with MIT’s Material Science and Engineering Department and has developed new shear thickening fluids based on nano-silica that can be used for different Saudi Aramco drilling applications. Her inspiration for the innovation came from the medical industry, mimicking dynamic biopolymers in a blood clotting cascade. Silica is a major component in sand, available abundantly as a natural resource in Saudi Arabia. Olayan’s research with advanced polymers, as well as synthetic and smart materials, involves collaborative studies with Saudi Aramco’s Global Research Centers in Boston and Houston. She conducted a class on “The Power of Science in Overcoming Challenges in the Oil and Gas Industry” at MIT, being the first woman from Saudi Aramco to do so. Olayan has also developed a new material that will be deployed in the field next month. The material will resolve loss circulation in drilling operations by replacing expensive imported raw material with locally manufactured material. “I feel very proud to be receiving the Woman of the Year Award,” she said. “This outstanding recognition not only represents me but every woman in Saudi Aramco who works hard alongside her fellow men to lead the company to success. Winning would not have been possible without the support I’ve received from my family and Saudi Aramco management.” “This is the first industry recognition EXPEC ARC has received that specifically highlights achievements by a female researcher,” said Ali A. Al-Meshari, EXPEC ARC manager. “The numerous inroads the department has implemented over the years to ensure equal opportunities for women’s development is certainly coming to fruition.”Saudi Aramco participated as sponsor and “Knowledge Partner” in the ASIS Middle East 2017 event organized by the International Society for Industrial Security in the Middle East, at The Ritz Carlton Bahrain Hotel, from 5-7 November 2017. The theme of the event was “Securing Economic Diversification,” which addressed the trends of using security as an enabler to pursue economic development and diversification. Because of the interdependent relationship between risk management and ensuring the success of a business, the event focused on the challenges facing executives in the region as they make decisions concerning physical security, cybersecurity and management issues. Saudi Aramco’s Senior VP of Operations & Business Services, Muhammad Al Saggaf, was a keynote speaker in the opening session of the conference titled “Economic Diversification and the Changing Business Landscape in the GCC.” Addressing the audience, Al Saggaf said economic diversification must be based on a robust, integrated, and holistic framework that integrates all the initiatives together to create a solid foundation. This is what we have done in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia as our Saudi Vision 2030 represents a suitable platform for integrating multiple initiatives. Al Saggaf added: “At Saudi Aramco, we have a pioneering initiative through our In Kingdom Total Value Add or “IKTVA” program, where we aim to increase our local content in goods, services, and labor to 70% by the year 2021. As a strategic and cornerstone initiative launched by Saudi Aramco two years ago, IKTVA seeks to establish an efficient and reliable world-class supply chain and services ecosystem in Saudi Arabia. IKTVA also achieves one of the important objectives highlighted byVision 2030, namely to increase the participation of small and medium size enterprises in the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Kingdom. Finally, it represents an important investment in the young talent of Saudi men and women as they represent a key element in IKTVA initiative. ASIS Middle East 2017 provided a platform for companies and executives to attend sessions on multiple security-related topics such as IOT risks, maritime security, travel risk management, the potential risks of unmanned aerial vehicles, and the skillsets that will be required in the future for security professionals working in the energy industry.“Empower, Engage, and Elevate” were the three key words on the minds of those who attended the Leadership Excellence for Women Awards and Symposium (LEWAS) recently in Bahrain. The purpose of the three days of workshops, speakers, panel discussions, and awards was to help women in the oil and gas industry throughout the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) feel the significance of those three words in their lives and careers. LEWAS is an industry initiative of the 4th Middle East Process Engineering Conference, which was held in Bahrain the same week. LEWAS steering committee members represent nine different companies, academic institutions, and nongovernmental entities, and is chaired by Reem A. Al-Ghanim, head of Saudi Aramco’s Women Development and Diversity Division (WD&DD) at Saudi Aramco. Among the recipients of an awards ceremony on the first day, were two members of Saudi Aramco’s EXPEC Advanced Research Center (ARC). Abrar Alabbad, a geologist, was a runner-up for the “Rising Star” award, while EXPEC ARC manager Ali A. Al-Meshari was named a “Corporate Champion.”
The second day of the event was dedicated to learning and development. Titled “Illuminating Your Path,” the activities were especially targeted at women early in their careers to help give them direction and the motivation to excel. Zahi Z. Abdein, who is with the WD&DD, presented an interactive workshop titled “Roadmap to Leadership” and Aisha Alomair, also from Saudi Aramco, gave a talk on “Barriers Facing Female Professionals in the Middle East and Asia.” Her presentation examined the barriers women face early in their career such as entering the workforce, lack of retention, and the need for promotion. Jennifer Born, also from WD&DD, delivered a thought-provoking workshop titled “Work-Life Balance,” in which she pressed participants to think about their answers to a few deep and personal questions: “Are you living out your values, and what does success look like to you?”The closing session of the second day, presented by Jennifer Shepard and Lisa Stephens from WD&DD, led participants to evaluate the day’s learnings and focus on a future goal and commit to an action step. “The workshop really focused on setting goals and creating the first step you need to achieve them,” said Dalia Abushulaih, who is with Saudi Aramco’s Professional Development Program. “My personal experience with this workshop was truly remarkable. “The greatest moment was when I presented to the whole workshop my goal. I hope to find an opportunity in the future, where I am connected to businesses, government, and society to be able to create positive progress that can be heard, learned, and applied in our great Kingdom. Having the amazing people I was surrounded by to support a dream of mine truly did illuminate my path.”The final day featured a symposium that included presentations and panel discussions with experts on gender issues in the oil and gas industry. Al-Ghanim participated in a panel discussion about “Highlighting Corporate Excellence.” This animated discussion focused on the value proposition for gender diversity in the workforce — specifically increased innovation and profitability. Al-Ghanim outlined the “Three P’s” — pipeline, perception, and playing field — citing Saudi Aramco’s commitment to the World Economic Forums “Call-to-Action in Narrowing the Gender Gap in Energy.” Women must be developed at every stage of the pipeline, said Al-Ghanim, starting with science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) education for girls and executive development for senior women. Perceptions on the roles women can play in the workplace need focus and an equal playing field needs to be established, she added.Saudi Aramco undertakes an unprecedented geological task on the Kingdom’s West Coast as we look to first understand, and then uncover, the treasures buried beneath the waters of the Red Sea. The task of mapping the seabed was colossal. Almost a decade ago, Saudi Aramco made the decision to conduct the world’s largest single hydrographic survey in the Saudi Red Sea waters — an area of almost 200,000 square kilometers (km2). Prior 2-D seismic data acquisition had revealed positive signs for the presence of hydrocarbons in geological traps. Just like the Eastern Province in the early 1940s, the Red Sea was frontier territory — unexplored. Its development would be a catalyst to spur growth and industry in the Western Region. A large-scale hydrographic survey — never before done in these historic waters — was required to fully understand the seafloor conditions. The hydrographic survey with its close grid analysis would help support all oil field operations, including rig movements, laying of pipelines, oil field facilities, and the routes for supply vessels. “We got a good understanding, but lacked the topography of the seabed,” noted Saleh A. Al-Maghlouth, manager of the Exploration Operations Department. “So we undertook this groundbreaking hydrographic survey to help us better understand the structures and where to drill.”
Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser, today joined fellow oil and gas CEOs and key energy and climate leaders for the third annual meeting of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), where they announced investments in promising low-emission technologies to be implemented by OGCI Climate Investments (OGCI CI), the investment arm of OGCI. Nasser said, “Saudi Aramco is committed to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by focusing our research, development and funding on high impact technologies that reduce cost and create significant environmental advantages.” The investments with Solidia Technologies, Achates Power and the first commercial carbon capture, use and storage (CCUS) gas plant are a testimony to OGCI’s determination in tackling climate change through technology-enabled solutions that align with Saudi Aramco’s key priorities of reducing GHG emissions in the energy sector. Nasser added, “We are also leveraging our global research and development network to demonstrate more efficient transport solutions, as well as, new technologies to capture CO2 and transform it into high value products, such as the Converge® technology, which produces low GHG footprint polymers.” In a joint statement, the OGCI member companies said: “Natural gas is a vital part of the transition to a lower carbon future. Our aim is to work towards near zero methane emissions from the gas value chain. We are also committed to ensure that natural gas continues to deliver its clear climate and clean air benefit compared to coal.” In other achievements over the past year, OGCI is partnering with United Nations Environment to launch the world’s first global methane study focused on filling gaps in identification and quantification of global methane emissions. OGCI is also working with Imperial College London to develop a clearer understanding of total GHG emissions across the natural gas value chain.The Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI) announces today its first three investments, moving forward the organization’s commitments into concrete action to spur the growth of promising low carbon technologies. OGCI Climate Investments is the billion-dollar investment fund established last year by OGCI. The fund invests in promising technologies and business models that have the potential to significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. OGCI Climate Investments is building a network of partners and co-investors in key sectors to leverage the expertise of this global network. Pratima Rangarajan, CEO of OGCI Climate Investments, said: “The three investments we are announcing today have the potential to make a meaningful impact on greenhouse gas emissions. We look forward to working with these innovative teams to help them achieve commercial success on a global scale.” OGCI also releases its third annual report today, which shows the progress made towards tackling some of the industry’s biggest challenges and shares new partnership agreements that support OGCI’s ambitions. In a joint statement, the ten CEOs who lead OGCI said: “Natural gas is a vital part of the transition to a lower carbon future. Our aim is to work towards near zero methane emissions from the gas value chain. We are also committed to ensure that natural gas continues to deliver its clear climate and clean air benefit compared to coal.” OGCI is partnering with United Nations Environment and the Environmental Defense Fund to provide financial and technical backing for the world’s first global methane study to fill gaps in the identification and quantification of global methane emissions. This project has the potential to inform new policy and will help to identify new initiatives to reduce emissions. Erik Solheim, Executive Director of UN Environment, said: “Oil and gas industry leaders have a critical role to play in our efforts to take on climate change and limit the global temperature rise. We are counting on groups such as OGCI to support the needed shift in the way we produce and consume energy. Partnerships like this are extremely important. They’re not only about financial support, but concrete action – because this is how success will be measured.” OGCI is also working with Imperial College London on research that aims to provide a more accurate picture of total greenhouse gas emissions across the natural gas value chain, from well to distribution. This will identify emission hotspots that will allow OGCI to focus its efforts on areas that could bring the greatest benefits. Looking ahead, OGCI will continue to focus on chosen key areas:Saudi Aramco took part in the three-day Middle East Process Engineering Conference and Exhibition (MEPEC) recently held in Bahrain. Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, senior vice president of Technical Services for Saudi Aramco, spoke during the opening session of the conference, which was held under the sponsorship of HRH Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Bahrani prime minister. The exhibition is one of the biggest in the Gulf region where the latest process engineering technologies are displayed and discussed. HH Sheikh Ali bin Khalifa Al Khalifa, Bahraini deputy prime minister, opened the exhibition and visited the Saudi Aramco booth, getting a chance to see some of our company’s latest innovations and technologies in the energy sector.In his address, Al Sa’adi noted that “Saudi Aramco continues to achieve high levels of crude oil and natural gas production, in addition to achieving stronger integration in the hydrocarbon value chain. This has been achieved despite the continuing drop in oil prices and weak performance of the world economy.” Al Sa’adi said the company has adopted four strategies that have contributed to achieving sustained growth and optimal performance over the past few years to adjust to challenging economic conditions. These strategies include:Speaking about leading in technology and innovation, Al Sa’adi said, “The importance of developing technology and innovation is represented in maximizing the value of our hydrocarbon materials and achieving a more diversified market and the competitiveness of our products on the world level.” Al Sa’adi noted that our research and development efforts focus on high-impact technologies while maintaining the capability of creating greater competitiveness for company operations and of helping grow new operations.On the second element of Saudi Aramco’s strategy, which is leveraging the digital revolution, Al Sa’adi noted the company’s efforts, including the improvement of 3-D applications and geo-steering technologies in upstream subsurface applications, where Saudi Aramco has led the industry in the development of smart fields. “Another disruptive technology is our development of the TeraPOWERS reservoir modeling and simulation platform, which has won several prestigious global awards.”Al Sa’adi said that in 2011, as part of Saudi Aramco’s strategic Accelerated Transformation Program, the company launched a capital efficiency initiative to establish a system for executing projects and achieve further improvements, which in turn has helped achieve the goals set by the capital efficiency strategy.  One of many examples of creating value in various capital projects is the Fadhili Gas Plant, where the company managed to improve the scope of the project, implement new cost-effective technologies, and abide by the targeted cost and time schedule, he said.On Operational Excellence, Al Sa’adi said: “Saudi Aramco’s quest for excellence began decades ago. Operational Excellence is the ultimate manifestation of Saudi Aramco’s corporate values, enabling us to drive for the best results and remain agile in addressing challenges.” He further added that in the field of technology, the EXPEC Advanced Research Center won more than 20 international awards in 2017. Aramco Overseas Company B.V. (AOC), a subsidiary of Saudi Aramco, has entered into an arrangement to buy Gunvor Group’s stake in the Maasvlakte Olie Terminal (MOT) in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Gunvor is one of the largest physical commodities trading houses in the world. The sale is targeted for completion by the end of October. The agreed terms have not been disclosed.   Gunvor acquired its stake in MOT through its acquisition of Gunvor Petroleum Rotterdam in 2016, and the divestment of MOT is part of Gunvor’s strategy to further develop its Rotterdam refining operations.   AOC’s investment in MOT will add to its current participation in other facilities in the same area, allowing for expanded offerings in the North West Europe refining hub. This will complement Saudi Aramco’s export activities in Europe, strengthen the company’s supply chain and enhance its customer services in the region.  About Gunvor Group
Gunvor Group is one of the world’s largest independent commodities trading houses by turnover, creating logistics solutions that safely and efficiently move physical energy and bulk materials from where they are sourced and stored to where they are demanded most. With strategic investments in industrial infrastructure—refineries, pipelines, storage, terminals, mining and upstream—Gunvor further generates sustainable value across the global supply chain for its customers. Speaking at this year’s American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) and Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG) International Conference and Exhibition, Ibraheem M. Assa’adan, vice president of Exploration with Saudi Aramco, discussed how geosciences had fueled decades of success for hydrocarbons — the substance that changed human civilization and propelled economic prosperity over the past century. Celebrating AAPG’s 100 years of existence, the 2017 edition held last week in London featured many sessions assessing the progress of the industry over the past century.Assa’adan noted that geological science alone would not have allowed for such success, as it was a combined effort with geophysics that led to major revolutions in discovery and recovery, and oil becoming essential to civilization. Touching on the future of demand, Assa’adan discussed how the conversation had shifted to one of concerns around peak demand, rather than the peak supply mantra that prevailed over the past century — though he added that it would always be healthy to have supplemental energy resources. “Looking at the next 20 years, based on official forecasts by specialized agencies, we envisage incremental demand increases, and even at a flat 100 million barrels per day, it is estimated that around one trillion barrels will be required over the next three decades,” he said. “This is particularly true given that 65% of the world’s population live in the developing world, and this population continues to grow by 30% in the foreseeable future. “We’re seeing a steady increase in gas demand as fuel and petrochemical feedstock. Oil to petrochemical is also an intriguing area for technology R&D that, once proven, will reshape future demand.”Assa’adan said that despite demand factors, it’s important that the upstream sector continued to find ways of doing things better — especially in terms of industry talent — as young professionals are still needed. “With the coming of the fourth Industrial Revolution and the technologies it brings with it, such as artificial intelligence and high-performance computing, our geoscientists are now able to simulate entire petroleum systems,” said Assa’adan. “We want to work hard at understanding the petroleum system, onshore and offshore, and these technological upgrades will help us.” Saudi Aramco itself currently has a one trillion cell basin simulator, built last year. Assa’adan said the industry will be lagging in this crucial area no more, as the time for total petroleum system simulation and high definition geological basin modeling has come, and it will no doubt reshape the future of the industry on aspects of discovery, recovery, and unconventionals.The New Silk Road is an increasingly popular term referring to an emerging network of infrastructure, enhanced transportation routes, and widening economic and energy corridors between the Far East and Europe, with the Arabian Gulf region as the geographical nexus enabling this growth.For its part, the Gulf region has particularly seen growth in a number of industrial sectors, specifically contributing to the development of its role as a world-class trading hub for energy. Against this backdrop, Saudi Aramco’s wholly owned trading arm, Aramco Trading Company (ATC), has emerged as a regional leader, as was evidenced recently when ATC president and CEO Ibrahim Q. Al-Buainain was named 2017 New Silk Road CEO of the Year for Trading at a gala dinner in Fujairah. The New Silk Road CEO of the Year Awards were developed to celebrate a new wave of economic integration between the Arabian Gulf region and the Far East, and to recognize the pioneering industry leaders who are at the forefront of what is being seen as a revival of the ancient Silk Road trade route, according to Sean Evers of Gulf Intelligence — a strategic communications and research firm.  The 2017 inaugural awards are the result of a lengthy and rigorous selection process. A diverse range of industry experts scored nominees on four attributes: impact, leadership and partnership, innovation and creative thinking, and long-term vision. A wider industry audience of more than 2,000 executives operating in the New Silk Road downstream energy sector then selected the winner from shortlisted candidates. In accepting the award, Al-Buainain pointed to the rapid growth and success of ATC, crediting the employees as the drivers of that success. “It is indeed a great honor and privilege to join such esteemed colleagues and the distinguished industry leaders that are being recognized here today,” said Al-Buainain. “But to me, this award is more a reflection of the talent and determination of all the employees and members of the Aramco Trading Company team, for it is through their hard work that I stand before this audience and celebrate the role that ATC plays in building the New Silk Road.” Since its establishment in January 2012, ATC has emerged as a leading and fast-growing global trading company. The company’s steady growth includes the achieved annual traded volumes, products portfolio, geographical coverage, market share, and performance reliability, in addition to the commercial support extended to Saudi Aramco’s downstream system, including international joint ventures.Saudi Aramco participated as the diamond sponsor in the 5th Water Arabia Conference and Exhibition under the theme “Sustaining water resources through innovative and reliable water and wastewater treatment technologies.” At the conference’s opening session, Eng. Abdullah O. Al-Baiz, Saudi Aramco Vice President of Engineering Services, gave insights of the company's role in the creation of new technological methods for water treatment and desalination, noting that Saudi Aramco has vast experiences in water preservation and conservation. He said the company constantly aims through its water conservation strategy to lead Kingdom’s efforts in minimizing the use of non-renewable groundwater resources and maximizing its availability to future generations. He also stressed the importance of the industry and government working together to plan and implement water conservation strategies, to meet the growth of the Kingdom’s population and economy. “The conference is in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategies to provide water solutions, and address water challenges facing Saudi Arabia, a nation located in one of the most arid regions on Earth. It underlines the urgent need to increase awareness on water scarcity in the region, and engage all members of the community in water conservation at home, at work, and in communities,” said Al-Baiz. The conference, which was held in Al Khobar from October 17 to 19 2017, under the patronage of the Minister of Environment, Water, and Agriculture, H.E. Eng. Abdulrahman A. Al Fadley, was organized by The Saudi Arabian Water Environment Association (SAWEA) in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment, Water and Agriculture, the US Water Environment Federation (WEF), International Desalination Association (IDA) and Imam Abdulrahman bin Faisal University in Dammam. The conference discussed several topics, including water treatment, sustainable wastewater treatment options, and policy and management of water supply in the Kingdom. It brought together researchers, business leaders, investors, contractors, suppliers, manufacturers, and senior decision-makers from around the globe who are interested in the field of water and environment. A number of specialized organizations from various governmental and private sectors also participated in the conference which included many technical workshops provided by Saudi Aramco. An exhibition was also held on the sidelines, showcasing the latest technologies in water treatment and conservation.A recent joint symposium between Saudi Aramco and the Japan Cooperation Center, Petroleum (JCCP) held in Tokyo featured the theme “The Global Perspective of the Hydrogen Economy.” Approximately 200 participants from governmental organizations, the energy industry, shipping companies, automobile manufacturers, power generation, research centers, academia, and members from Saudi Aramco gathered to discuss hydrogen and the role it can play in achieving a more sustainable energy future. The symposium was organized in collaboration with Aramco Asia-Japan. JCCP is an affiliated organization of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry that promotes technical cooperation and personnel exchanges between Japan and oil-producing countries in the downstream sectors of the oil industry. Since unveiling the “Strategic Road Map for Hydrogen and Fuel Cells Society” in 2014, Japan has spearheaded a concerted effort toward realizing a “hydrogen-based society” to address climate change concerns and establishing a foundation for a more sustainable energy sector. Saudi Aramco considers this a great opportunity to supply sustainable hydrogen to Japan and the region for both mobility and power generation, leveraging and expanding the use of our vast oil and gas resources in a sustainable manner in line with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. In his opening remarks, Anwar A. Hejazi, Aramco Asia-Japan representative director, emphasized the importance of continuous and close collaboration between Saudi Aramco and Japanese partners. Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, vice president of Technology Oversight and Coordination with Saudi Aramco, delivered a keynote speech that highlighted the global hydrogen energy and fuel cell industry as one of the most significant players in technology innovation, economic expansion, and sustainable development of the global economy in the 21st century and beyond. He also spoke about how that can play a key role in developing a globally competitive and vibrant Saudi energy sector. “Hydrogen in the energy mix is attracting growing interest from many countries for a number of reasons, including environmental concerns, energy security and supply, and economic competitiveness,” said Al-Khowaiter. He also highlighted a wide range of research and innovation efforts by Saudi Aramco in the areas of hydrogen and sustainability, and how the company would contribute to producing hydrogen from hydrocarbons economically, as well as capturing and utilizing carbon dioxide (CO2) in a cost competitive manner. “The more collaboration we have on the technology challenges by exchanging ideas and connecting the dots among diverse industries — just like the purpose of this symposium — the more quickly we can make the ‘Hydrogen Economy’ a reality,” said Al-Khowaiter.For more than 90 years, the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) has created a platform for sharing technical ideas in oil and gas exploration and production, and serving as a place for industry to debut its latest technologies. This year’s Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition (ATCE) in San Antonio was no exception. Saudi Aramco has been a longtime supporter of SPE and served as a titanium sponsor and exhibitor at the conference. The Middle East region has one of the largest and most active memberships in the organization.During the annual reception and banquet, seven Aramco professionals were among the honorees who were recognized for their significant technical and professional contributions to the industry and exceptional service and leadership to the society. Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser was awarded SPE’s Distinguished Lifetime Achievement Award, which was established in 2013. The award recognizes an individual who has exhibited an exceptional devotion of time, effort, thought and action to set them apart from others.For his leadership and support of innovation at the highest levels of management, Nasir K. Al-Naimi, Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Petroleum Engineering and Development, was recognized with SPE’s Charles F. Rand Memorial Gold Medal for distinguished achievement. Advancing petroleum engineering in the area of formation evaluation, core analysis, well logging, and petrophysics earned Mark A. Proett, petroleum engineer, Aramco Services Company (ASC), SPE’s Formation Evaluation Award. An academic and researcher at heart, Anuj Gupta, a petroleum engineer with ASC, was recognized with SPE’s Distinguished Service Award for his exceptional devotion to the organization and the many hours he has dedicated to volunteer service. For leadership in public and community matters, the petroleum engineering profession and the petroleum industry, SPE awarded Ali M. Alkhatib, a petroleum engineer at Saudi Aramco, with its Young Member Outstanding Service Award. Joining the ranks of SPE Distinguished Membership for distinction worthy of special recognition, and who have made significant contributions to the organization, were Hui-hai Lui, a petroleum engineer at ASC, and Nabeel I. Al-Afaleg, chief petroleum engineer at Saudi Aramco. Visitors to Aramco’s exhibition booth learned about the company and its expanding global reach, as well as diversification of the company’s portfolio further down the petroleum value chain to refining and chemicals. Aramco’s Houston office supported the event, which was attended by more than 8,000.Saudi Aramco is participating in the 2nd International C4I (Command, Control, Communication, Computer, and Intelligence) Conference to be held from October 17 to 19, 2017 in Riyadh under the patronage of HRH Prince Mohammad Bin Salman Al Saud, the Crown Prince, Deputy President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Defense. Cybersecurity specialists from Saudi Aramco will be extending their knowledge and expertise during the conference by presenting the cybersecurity strategy, latest trends, and the evolution of cybersecurity capabilities in the industry, to aid in elevating the cyber resiliency of the Critical Infrastructure. As a Diamond Patron, Saudi Aramco will have its own pavilion in the exhibition area of the conference, where evolved cybersecurity capabilities and cutting-edge solutions will be showcased. “Saudi Aramco’s participation in this conference stems the company’s commitment to develop a sustainable cybersecurity ecosystem within the kingdom and continuous efforts to stay abreast of the latest developments in this field” said AbdulRahman Al-Muagle, Saudi Aramco’s Chief Information Security Officer. Carrying this year’s theme “Alliance against Terrorism: Strategies and Capabilities”, the conference is organized by King Saud University in collaboration with the Ministry of Defense. Several events will be held on the sidelines of the conference, including the National Competition for Cybersecurity “Hackathon”, scientific sessions, panel discussions, and a number of training courses. The conference aims to tackle the latest key trends and developments in the areas of command and control, computers, intelligence and cybersecurity, and their use in counterterrorism, as this helps identify the gap between the local requirements of customers and the current available solutions. It will also be a strategic platform to share experiences and expertise among military, industrial and academic sectors. In addition, it provides the golden opportunity to discuss modern challenges, recommend solutions to counter those challenges, contribute to the development of command and control systems, as well as open new horizons for international collaboration in the areas of research, development and innovation.“The inauguration of a maintenance, repair, and overhaul (MRO) facility for gas and steam turbines and compressors represents a new milestone in the fruitful cooperation with Saudi Aramco's strategic partner, Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Ltd.,” said Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, Saudi Aramco's senior vice president of Upstream. Al Qahtani was speaking at the inauguration ceremony for Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Ltd.’s new facility in Dammam on 12 October 2017. The event was held under the patronage of HRH Prince Ahmed bin Fahd bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Vice Governor of the Eastern Province. Al-Qahtani added: “The signing of a major long-term supply agreement in 2014 marked the beginning of cooperation between Saudi Aramco and Mitsubishi Hitachi.” Al-Qahtani also noted the wider significance of the new plant. He said: "This investment is important for three reasons: First, this facility represents an important element of Saudi Aramco's ongoing commitment to establishing a world-class supply chain and services ecosystem in Saudi Arabia. This is a strategic objective and cornerstone of the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) Program, launched by Saudi Aramco two years ago to double local content by 2021.” “Second,” he added, “this investment is instrumental in achieving one of the important objectives highlighted by Vision 2030, namely to increase small and medium size enterprise (SME) contribution to the Kingdom's GDP.” Al Qahtani said the third and most important reason is that the investment represents a commitment to the Kingdom’s invaluable human capital - the young men and women whose work is an essential component of the IKTVA program. The availability of well-trained Saudi Arabian talent, according to Al-Qahtani, represents the most crucial aspect of job creation and localization. Saudi Aramco has realized this aspect and, therefore, entered into partnership with the Technical and Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC), and in collaboration with a group of leading industrial companies, to establish 15 centers of excellence, mainly based in the Eastern Province, with an existing capacity of nearly 10,000 trainees. These centers are fulfilling the Saudi energy sector’s needs of technically-qualified young people. Such centers complement Saudi Aramco's distinguished legacy of human development. “These centers are the only link between training and employment and demonstrate a successful model that we have been trying over many years and it proved to be highly effective. We hope that this model will be adopted on a broader scale as a cornerstone of the national development,” he added. "We aspire to make the new Eastern Province-based facility a model to be followed by both private and public sectors throughout the Kingdom,” Al-Qahtani said, noting that “the Saudization levels are still low in maintenance jobs, but there is potential to be increasingly filled in by Saudi professionals, promoting greater value addition and benefiting the nation and all stakeholders.”The world needs a healthy geophysical industry. Connecting applied geophysics to the business is more important than ever as operators look to lower costs and identify economically viable exploration and production opportunities. That was the message during the opening plenary session for this year’s Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG) International Exposition and 87th annual meeting. The quality of seismic data and the analysis provided by geophysics professionals enables companies to make the best choices and be successful. The next generation of geophysics will call for even more computational power with exascale computing — computing capable of a billion billion calculations per second — to process the data from complex geological structures.Aramco also participated in two post-conference workshops, including hosting a special workshop featuring a presentation on innovative seismic acquisition technology.  The technical focus of SEG was rivaled this year by the recognition of the social contributions of applied geophysics throughout the world. The SEG Foundation’s Geoscientists without Borders supports humanitarian applications of geoscience around the world by helping communities facing environmental hardship and environmental disasters such as severe water shortages and threats of earthquakes and tsunamis. This was highlighted because the SEG conference was the first major conference to be held at the George R. Brown Convention Center in downtown Houston since hurricane Harvey — one of the costliest natural disasters in U.S. history — impacted the city. Aramco served as a titanium sponsor and participated in the exhibition show floor with approximately 700 attendees stopping by the stand to hear in-booth presentations and learn more about the company. Research scientists at the Saudi Aramco EXPEC Advanced Research Center may be on the cusp of mitigating future elemental sulfur and even removing its deposition tenfold by using a cheaper solid-liquid mixture — simple garlic and low-grade heavy diesel oil.    Environmental regulatory agencies of many countries continue to promote evermore stringent regulations for the combustion of sulfur fuels and subsequent emission of sulfur gases into the atmosphere.    Sulfur occurs in various forms in oil and gas production activities, and its management has brought a new set of challenges to the forefront of oil and gas production. Elemental sulfur deposition problems affect pipeline production operations in many oil industries across the globe, and it is extremely costly to mitigate. The heightened cost of this deposition issue can be attributed to the scant knowledge available on elemental sulfur formation in sour gas.   One of the most difficult problems facing operators and engineers in the hydrocarbon industry is how to economically control and prevent the occurrence of sulfur. A number of expensive organic solvents are being used in hydrocarbon treatment plants to control this deposition challenge, yet this erratic and notorious deposition problem re-occurs and builds up over time.    “We want to find a better and cheaper way of delivering high-impact technology solutions in the oil industry,” said Harry Oduro, project leader of Saudi Aramco Sulfur Technology and Analytical Research Laboratory.   Experimenting creatively for far-reaching solutions, our geochemists have been working on a new kind of solvent extract from simple garlic that could dissolve large amounts of pipeline sulfur deposits at reservoir conditions in a shorter time period.    Unlike pricey batch solvents from service companies around the world, the sulfur removal solvent technology uses a special “ionic base” chemical together with garlic and heavy diesel oil to rapidly dissolve sulfur powder and crystals in the laboratory, providing “unique catenation and solubility functions that promote the dissolution of elemental sulfur deposition in our sour gas wells.”   Oduro explains that organic garlic extracts and its sulfur amino acid components have been widely recognized as agents for the prevention and treatment of cardiovascular and other metabolic diseases.   “It is a great challenge for scientists all around the world to make proper use of aliphatic organosulfur components in garlic to maximize its beneficial effect,” said Oduro, noting that this is the first time garlic extracts have been applied to petroleum research activities to curb large-scale sulfur deposition challenges.   The experimental process has several advantages over other solvents classified as “volatile and dangerous” as they release toxic volatile methylated sulfur compounds. Such solvents can cause health-related issues and adversely affect the environment. In addition, the new solvent can potentially be recycled and used again. Saudi Aramco Executive Director of Power Systems, Eng. Abdulkarim Al-Ghamdi said: “Saudi Aramco’s participation in the forum is an important enabler of the company’s greater responsibility to energy sustainability for the Kingdom. Our participation demonstrates our commitment and contributions for the efforts to optimize the fuel mix and maximize profitability to the company and the kingdom. We are also working constantly on initiatives aiming to reduce O&M cost, enhance efficiency, and maximize sustainability. The company is significantly expanding its applications of renewables in several remote locations to power off-grid gas and oil well facilities, bulk plants and offices which is driven mainly by economics and environment. Saudi Aramco is also strategically pursuing renewable investment at utility-scale to diversify the company portfolio and support the kingdom’s goal to reach 9,500 MW of renewable capacity by year 2023. Saudi Aramco-owned generation with efficiency reaching 70% is significantly expanding to reach 12 GW by year 2020. Hence, Saudi Aramco is working with the electricity regulator to obtain the necessary licensing requirement for energy export and trading to supply competitive power to investors such as the Energy Industrial City. At the same time, SA is pursuing an initiative to fully implement digitization across all power generation that will further optimize the cost of power and keep its competitive edge among other utility producers. In line with the fuel optimization strategy for the kingdom, Saudi Aramco has been working with relevant utility companies to reduce crude and diesel burning and was able to successfully reduce crude burning in kingdom this year by 35,000 barrels per day and diesel by 90,000 barrels per day and toward zero diesel burning by 2020. In addition, Saudi Aramco is looking into the utilization of opportunity fuels, such as emulsified fuels, Petcoke, and low BTU gas in the utility sector to maximize value for the kingdom by availing high value fuels for export. Looking into the future, Saudi Aramco is supporting and expediting deployment of new technologies and improving Saudi content through strategic partnerships. For example, GCC Lab was established as a collaborative effort with the government, industrial partners, and academia to test and inspect major electrical equipment to save time and cost for conformity testing.  Additionally, a National Clean Combustion Test Platform project is under development with national stakeholders to support large scale deployment of energy-efficient and clean fuel technologies. Within all these effort, Saudi Aramco is driving greater value though the development of local content. The company’s In kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program is designed to drive increased investment, economic diversification, job creation, and workforce development within the Kingdom.Saudi Arabian and Indian companies can jointly unlock enormous new growth opportunities, and boost bilateral trade and relations as part of efforts to achieve long term economic and development goals. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said at the inaugural IHS CERAWeek India Energy Forum that Saudi Vision 2030 and Vision for a New India can help companies from both countries and across various sectors to tap into significant new growth opportunities because of these programs. “At the heart of both programs is the goal of balanced and sustained economic development and diversification, fueled by further industrialization, a knowledge economy, and foreign direct investment,” he said at the inaugural India Energy Forum by CERAWeek in New Delhi. Nasser who met the Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi before the forum, said Saudi Aramco would like to invest across India’s downstream value chain and form partnerships with leading Indian energy companies. He added that Saudi Aramco’s strategic sourcing and procurement business with Indian companies is growing and expected that to increase in the coming years. “We intend to strengthen partnerships with Indian energy firms – beyond the supply of crude and LPG – and also invest in refining, distribution, retail and petrochemicals that strengthens India’s energy sector, and helping to enhance resilience against volatile oil markets,” he said. In the past six years, Saudi Aramco’s spending on material services sourced from Indian suppliers has reached almost $2 billion, with $1.3 billion alone of that occurring in just the past three years, Nasser said. But most important of all, Saudi Aramco recognizes what the world recognizes – the quality of India’s intellectual and human capital is unsurpassed, an engine of global innovation and leadership,” Nasser said. More importantly, Nasser said that Saudi Aramco is ready and eager to tap into the growth of India - of which its economy is expected to be second only to China’s by 2050, with the largest and youngest workforce in the world. “That is why I am convinced that one of the world’s fastest growing economy and the world’s largest, lowest cost and most reliable oil supplier, must elevate their relationship to a much higher level,” he said. One of the principal drivers of that growth is the “Make in India” campaign which is designed to make India a global manufacturing hub. Nasser said that along with that, it is also expected to cause a sharp rise in demand for oil, gas, and other energy sources, with signs that this is already happening. “Last year, India’s oil consumption grew by over 8% compared with global growth of 1.5%, making it the third largest consumer of oil. By 2040, India is likely to be among the fastest growing oil markets, with demand almost doubling to about 10 MMBD. Meanwhile, demand for gas is expected to more than triple over the same period,” he said. Nasser stressed that this rise in energy demand would have important implications of which the security of energy supplies will become more critical. He said it will require a stronger partnership between India and its oil and gas suppliers (and potential investors) to deliver an efficient and robust energy sector. Nasser added that the inauguration of the new Aramco Asia India office on Sunday (October 8, 2017) was testimony of Saudi Aramco’s commitment in creating new partnerships and reinforcing existing ones with this India. “We hope it will broaden and deepen our partnership with India; demonstrate our long-term commitment to India’s energy security and development; and help to increase bilateral trade far beyond the $25 billion it is today,” he concluded. Nasser was a keynote speaker at the forum, alongside Indian Minister of Petroleum & Natural Gas & Skill Development & Entrepreneurship H.E. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan; and the Secretary-General of OPEC, H.E. Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo.
Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and Namaste. Let me first thank Dan Yergin for that kind introduction, and his team for their gracious hospitality. When Dan asked me to speak at this select gathering, I was honored to be part of his first event in India – not only as a long-time supporter of CERA Week but as a good friend. Furthermore, given Saudi Arabia’s historic and fraternal ties with India, it was a chance to meet many other old friends. But the most important reason by far was the chance to make new friends in India, build new partnerships, and strive for new shared success. Because India and Saudi Arabia are giants on the move. We both have economies with enormous potential. And that potential is being unlocked by two bold new strategies – in India’s case with Prime Minister Modi’s signature initiative called “Vision for a New India”, and in our case Saudi Vision 2030. At the heart of both visions is the goal of balanced and sustained economic development and diversification, fueled by further industrialization, a knowledge economy, and foreign direct investment. Given this potential, the logic of closer economic cooperation and enhanced trade and investment has never been greater – in both directions. Saudi Aramco, for example, has purchased almost two billion dollars’ worth of materials and services from Indian companies in the past six years. But as our business portfolio expands and diversifies, and with Vision 2030 projects accelerating, we are seeing added impetus, with business volume doubling in just the past three years. This also speaks highly of the Indian firms’ ability to compete on both quality and cost, and I am certain that Indian investors will make the most of the enormous opportunities on offer in Saudi Arabia. But my focus this afternoon is India. Let me explain why I believe the moment is right for a step-change in Saudi Aramco’s partnership with this great nation. First, most analysts expect India’s economy to be second only to China’s by 2050, with the largest and youngest workforce in the world. Second, one of the principal drivers of that growth is the “Make in India” campaign. It is designed to make India a global manufacturing hub. But it is also expected to cause a sharp rise in demand for oil, gas, and other energy sources, with signs that this is already happening. Last year, India’s oil consumption grew by over 8% compared with global growth of 1.5%, making it the third largest consumer of oil. By 2040, India is likely to be among the fastest growing oil markets, with demand almost doubling to about 10 MMBD. Meanwhile, demand for gas is expected to more than triple over the same period. Third, this rise in energy demand will have important implications.The security of energy supplies will become more critical. That will require a stronger partnership between India and its oil and gas suppliers (and potential investors) to deliver an efficient and robust energy sector. In turn, extra strength needs to be injected now and at pace if that goal is to be achieved.

That is why I am convinced that the world’s fastest growing energy consumer and the world’s largest, lowest cost and most reliable oil supplier, must elevate their relationship to a much higher plane.To us at Saudi Aramco, the practical steps are obvious. We are determined to reflect our expanding and diversifying business portfolio by creating a fully integrated business here in India, and share the fruits of success with you. By that I mean the entire value chain, covering everything from oil supply, refining, and marketing to manufacturing of petrochemicals and lubes. I also mean collaboration in energy manufacturing and services, as well as R&D and technology. We will back that with investment in India’s flourishing energy market; joint ventures; and by leveraging the world-class talent India has in IT, petroleum, and evolving technologies. That is why we were delighted to officially open our new office in New Delhi yesterday in the presence of His Excellency Minister Pradhan. We hope it will broaden and deepen our partnership with India; demonstrate our long-term commitment to India’s energy security and development; and help to increase bilateral trade far beyond the 25 billion dollars it is today.

It is the perfect symbol, Ladies and Gentlemen, of how India and Saudi Arabia are on the move, and how both are open for business. Now is the perfect time for Saudi Aramco to aim much higher with our Indian friends and partners, and for India to do the same. To paraphrase Prime Minister Modi, “We should walk together, work together, and progress together.”
And with this mantra in mind, I look forward to your questions and suggestions. Thank you.Saudi Aramco marked another significant milestone in its international portfolio expansion with the opening of Aramco Asia India’s new office in New Delhi today.
 The office was inaugurated by Saudi Aramco President and CEO, Amin H. Nasser at an event attended by H.E. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan India’s Minister of Petroleum and Natural Gas and Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Saudi Ambassador to India H.E. Dr. Saud Alsati, Indian government officials, heads of Indian major oil companies, as well as business and industry partners. “For Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, India represents much more than a valued customer or even a major supplier of services and materials. Today, India is an investment priority,” said Nasser in his welcoming remarks at the inauguration. Speaking at the inauguration, HE Pradhan said: “Today is a historic day for us with Aramco’s growing presence marking a new chapter in the relationship between Saudi Arabia and India. Aramco is a key partner for Indian refiners and there’s great potential to take our partnership to a higher level beyond the supply of crude oil, refined products and LPG to new areas of R&D, engineering and technology. In return, India can offer (competitive) cost and capacity advantages.” “We are here to meet India’s future energy demands by offering a strong relationship involving secure and reliable supply of energy feedstock to fuel India’s dynamic growth,” said Nasser. “And India has the necessary human capital and expertise that can help us grow from strength to strength.” He added that high volume of new business opportunities awaits to be unlocked from potential synergy between Saudi Aramco and Indian entities with Aramco Asia India providing the vital strategic link between the company’s headquarters in Dhahran and New Delhi. It also demonstrates Saudi Aramco’s readiness to play a role in India’s economic growth and development which is expected to be the fastest in the next decade, on top of the company’s existing role as a leading oil supplier to India for many years. “As reliable suppliers of oil and LPG for decades we are committed to providing those additional supplies that India will need,” he said. The New Delhi office will assume major roles in attracting more Indian manufacturers and investors to participate in the company’s In-Kingdom Total Value Addition, or IKTVA program. It will also strive towards qualifying more vendors in commodities which Saudi Aramco requires for its projects and operations as well as strengthening R&D collaboration with Indian expertise and continuing the momentum of supply for the country’s oil and related products demand. India imports 81% of its oil need from abroad. Nasser will also attend the inaugural India Energy Forum by CERAWeek as a key speaker alongside H.E. Shri Dharmendra Pradhan; and the Secretary-General of OPEC, H.E. Mohammad Sanusi Barkindo.Saudi Aramco’s aspiration to create an innovation culture, where researchers create game-changing technologies that meet the specific challenges of the Kingdom’s rich natural resources, provided the backdrop for a gathering of senior technology leaders at Halliburton’s annual Technology Council meeting at the Dhahran Techno Valley (DTV). The council is a gathering of the directors of Halliburton’s 14 research labs around the world, and this was the first time the council had met in Saudi Arabia. The gathering, held at DTV’s Innovation Center on the King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM) campus, was attended by KFUPM Rector and Saudi Aramco Board of Directors member HE Khaled S. Al-Sultan, Halliburton’s vice president of Technology Greg Powers, Saudi Aramco’s Northern Area Oil Operations vice president Nasir K. Al-Naimi, and EXPEC ARC manager Ali A. Al-Meshari, along with Halliburton’s research directors and other dignitaries.At the council’s opening session, Al-Sultan welcomed Halliburton’s technology directors and praised the company for being one of the first major oil services companies to locate a major research center at the DTV campus in Dhahran. Dhahran is fast taking its place as a magnet for innovative ideas, Al-Sultan said, noting that KFUPM recorded 115 patents last year — ranking 14th in the world among universities. In such a fertile intellectual environment, Halliburton’s collaboration with KFUPM and Saudi Aramco researchers can contribute to a broader “innovative ecosystem” in the Kingdom.In his welcoming remarks, Al-Naimi noted that Saudi Aramco and Halliburton have collaborated for more than 80 years to find technology solutions for exploring and developing the world’s largest oil reserves. He then laid out a number of current challenges the company faces as it ventures into new tight gas fields, while maintaining production in more mature conventional fields. “As Saudi Aramco’s operations have grown in size and complexity, Halliburton has been with us as a valued partner in building the world-leading oil industry we see today,” Al-Naimi said. “With our industry facing so many shared challenges, it makes sense for us to work together to find solutions. This level of collaboration is long-standing for Halliburton and Saudi Aramco, and our success in many areas, including fracturing, completions and many others, shows the benefit of working together.” Al-Meshari welcomed the Halliburton research directors and gave a brief snapshot of some of the innovative solutions that EXPEC ARC scientists are exploring to meet the company’s upstream challenges in the field. “We are blessed with natural resources,” Al-Meshari said. “But these resources mean nothing without the people to manage them, and they cannot be developed without technology. Together, Saudi Aramco and its partners are creating innovations that increase hydrocarbon discovery, increase recovery, and ensure that long-term development of these resources are cost-effective. Collaboration between Saudi Aramco, KFUPM, and Halliburton is crucial.Following the opening session, Saudi Aramco opened its doors to the Halliburton research directors, giving them a close-up look at its own upstream research activities in the labs of EXPEC ARC and the Geosteering Center. The research directors also visited the King Abdullah University for Science and Technology in Thuwal, where Saudi Aramco has created a research center to collaborate on major upstream challenges.The rich endowment of resources of both the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Russian Federation can enable companies from both countries to collaborate in creating synergies for a sustainable energy future with business and operational initiatives driven by technology, research and innovation, said Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO in a panel discussion at the Saudi-Russian Business Investment Forum. Jointly organized by the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA), the Council of Saudi Chambers, and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the forum was held in conjunction with the Royal Visit to Russia by The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud. Nasser said vast opportunities for collaboration between companies from Saudi Arabia and Russia are created by both the Kingdom’s existing economic pillars and the development and diversification envisaged by Saudi Vision 2030. Nasser outlined a number of areas for potential collaboration with Russian companies in industrial localization; international gas; downstream petrochemicals; technology, research and innovation; trading; and climate change and carbon management. Nasser also provided strategic insights on the future of energy and how the Kingdom and Russia could pool their sizable resources together in driving the global energy transformation by factoring in alternative energy which can complement oil’s existing preeminence, particularly gas and downstream / chemicals. Nasser stressed that all these could only be achieved with technology, research and innovation. Saudi Aramco considered this as key drivers of future success, and Saudi Aramco’s goal is to be a world-leading creator of energy and chemical technologies. “We have already established eight research centers around the world that complement our main research facilities in Saudi Arabia. Considering Russia’s considerable strengths in science and technology, as well as highly talented researchers, scientists and engineers, we are exploring collaboration in R&D field,” he said. Trading, according to Nasser, would also be an integral enabler to the strategic partnership with Russian entities involving opportunities in and refined products swaps, trading logistics, shipping and storage facilities, and new market venturing. He also highlighted Saudi Aramco’s industrial localization program In-Kingdom Total Value Add, or iktva, as another area of opportunity for Russian services and manufacturing companies to collaborate with Saudi partners. “Considering the large oil and gas resources possessed by our two countries, we also have a common interest in strengthening oil’s position and there are numerous to collaborate in these areas,” he said. Saudi Aramco also signed five Memoranda of Understandings (MOUs) with key Russian energy entities during the Royal Visit: The MOU will pave way for new business development in the energy value chain, oilfield services and manufacturing, the Ras Al Khair maritime yard development and potential partnerships in the Energy Industrial City developed by Saudi Aramco. The MOU will enable Saudi Aramco and Gazprom, Russia’s premier gas company to develop a significant business portfolio in international upstream gas, allowing the introduction of new vendors and suppliers to the Kingdom’s market. Among the elements of the MOU are LNG trade, LNG value chain and exploration / development as well as product storing. The MOU will see collaboration with Swiss-based LITASCO (the international marketing and trading arm of LUKOIL – one of Russia’s largest oil companies) which will give Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom access to Mediterranean refineries where Russian companies have been expanding. The proximity of the Mediterranean with the Red Sea provides an important strategic supply point to the Kingdom. The MOU with Gazprom Neft (a subsidiary of Gazprom and Russia’s fourth largest oil producer) will involve technology and R&D collaboration as well as training. The MOU will enable all parties to jointly evaluate potential opportunities for cooperation in the petrochemicals sector, including marketing of petrochemicals products, both in Russia and Saudi Arabia.Saudi Aramco’s first in-house basin simulator was recently introduced to our upstream scientists, showcasing the capabilities of the powerful new simulator, which is designed to reveal the hidden journey of oil to its present day locations to support explorationists in their discovery of new hydrocarbon deposits. Our TeraPOWERS Technology Team (TPT), part of the EXPEC Advanced Research Center, presented the basin simulator to the user community during a pair of workshops held at the Upstream Professional Development Center. The simulator was launched to simulate the geologic evolution of the Arabian sedimentary basin at an unprecedented level of detail, revealing the hidden journey of oil. The technology is unique because it can handle extremely large models that are required to simulate the petroleum systems of the Arabian Peninsula. It also allows the integration of geological information from reservoirs at an unprecedented resolution.The workshops concluded with an open discussion regarding the basin simulator roadmap. Basin workshop attendees provided their feedback to the TPT team, which will use the customer input to update the 2017 working plans based on the project roadmap. A mid-year release of the basin simulator includes a Hybrid Darcy migration, which will generate migration pathways for hydrocarbons over millions of years more accurately, allowing explorationists to drill for potential trapped hydrocarbons along the migration pathways for additional reserves. The next phases will include additional graphical software such as Petrel workflows and Lithology and Kinetic Editors, which provide user graphical tools to prepare and input data available in the company database easily, and graphically input and edit erosion and kinetic data, thereby saving man-hours.Saudi Aramco will participate in the historic Royal Visit to Russia by The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud from October 4 to 7, 2017. The visit will reinforce the already strong relationship between Saudi Arabia and the Russian Federation, primarily driven by the fact it is creating the much desired synergy between two highly influential energy powers of the world. Saudi Aramco will participate in a range of high-level engagements and activities including an exhibit throughout the three days which form the business component of the Royal Visit, alongside other key Saudi entities. The highlight will be the “Saudi-Russian Business Investment Forum” to be held in Moscow under the theme: “Investment, Toward Building a Strong Partnership.” The forum will be officially opened by Russia’s Minister of Energy, H.E. Alexander Novak. Jointly organized by the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA), Council of Saudi Chambers, and the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), the forum will see Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser participate in a panel discussion on “Bilateral Investments.” The forum will serve as a strategic platform for Saudi Aramco to promote its initiatives in supporting Saudi Vision 2030, and the industrial localization program In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) which can potentially attract Russian market-leading companies to offer skills development and technological expertise. “There are significant opportunities in a number of these areas for collaboration between Saudi Aramco and leading Russian companies. In particular, oil and gas services, petrochemicals, renewables, advanced materials and other advanced technologies, and cutting-edge basic and applied research are all promising areas for bilateral cooperation,” Saudi Aramco CEO Amin Nasser said ahead of the visit. Saudi Aramco is also expected to sign a number of Memoranda of Understandings with major Russian companies. In 2016, Russian Energy Minister H.E. Novak visited Saudi Aramco when he visited the Kingdom and met with H.E. Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources and Chairman of Saudi Aramco when they discussed topics of mutual interest. In May this year, Igor Sechin, CEO led a delegation from Rosneft to Saudi Aramco to discuss a range of areas of potential collaboration including technology, sharing best practices, and other areas.Saudi Aramco has entered into a strategic partnership with Petronas Chemicals Group Berhad (PCG) to enhance the value and competitive positioning of its petrochemicals projects within the PETRONAS Pengerang Integrated Complex (PIC) in the southern Malaysian state of Johor. The partnership marks a strategic, mutually beneficial relationship that will provide PIC with high-impact strengths and synergies from both Saudi Aramco and PCG. Under the terms of the venture’s share purchase agreement (SPA), signed between PCG and Saudi Aramco’s Aramco Overseas Holding Cooperatif U.A. (AOHC) subsidiary, the parties have equal ownership in PRPC Polymers Sdn Bhd (PRPC Polymers) within PIC. The signing of this agreement with PCG is another positive milestone for Saudi Aramco after the signing of the SPA with PCG’s parent company Petronas during Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques King Salman’s visit to Malaysia last February. The agreement was signed by Saudi Aramco VP International Operations, Said Al-Hadrami and PETRONAS VP and PCG Managing Director / Chief Executive Officer, Datuk Sazali Hamzah. "This venture leverages the historic partnership between Saudi Aramco and PETRONAS that was recently sealed during the visit of the Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques King Salman to Malaysia. Given PCG’s strength in the region’s petrochemicals sector, Saudi Aramco is proud to be entering into a deeper, mutually beneficial partnership in PIC.” said Saudi Aramco VP International Operations, Said Al-Hadrami. He added: “This agreement strengthens Saudi Aramco’s position and growth in South East Asia through crude supply and world-scale downstream operations. Through this venture, we will also achieve a high degree of integration between refining and petrochemicals, with petrochemicals production greater than 10% of crude intake. It is also in tandem with our downstream growth strategy where we are investing in a global refining and petrochemicals system of strategically located world-scale manufacturing complexes with participated refining capacity of several million barrels per day.” PETRONAS VP and PCG MD/CEO, Datuk Sazali Hamzah said: “The petrochemicals projects in PIC is one of the largest growth projects for PCG and PETRONAS’ largest downstream investment on a single site to date. The signing of this Agreement is truly a momentous milestone for the industry as it brings together two key leaders in petrochemicals, entering into a partnership in a world-scale greenfield project. We are proud to be joining hands with Saudi Aramco, a world leader in integrated energy and chemicals with an unrivalled track-record in mega-project execution and efficiency.” Referencing its petrochemicals projects in PIC, Sazali said: “As at August 2017, the PIC development is at about 75% overall project progress and the first petrochemical production is expected to commence after the completion of the refinery, which is scheduled in 2019. The petrochemicals projects within the PIC are currently progressing as planned.” “We are putting a lot of effort into PIC readiness. By 2020, our petrochemicals projects under PIC will provide a strong foundation for us to move into derivatives and specialty chemicals. Beyond 2020, PCG will also focus on assessing opportunities in downstream derivatives and specialty chemicals at Pengerang, Kertih, Gebeng and East Malaysia.”Following the publication by the Wall Street Journal of an article on the 2015 Radium compound fire, Saudi Aramco reiterates its deepest sympathy to those who lost their lives in this tragic incident. Saudi Aramco remembers the ten people - one employee and nine dependents - who lost their lives in this tragic incident, and we again express our condolence to those affected. The fire occurred at a privately-owned, maintained, and operated residential compound in Khobar that the company leased in 2014 to provide employee housing, and it did not take place on company premises or involve any hydrocarbon facilities. The local emergency services responded to the incident within their jurisdiction and the company’s own fire-fighting team provided back-up. Immediately following the fire, the company provided support to its employees and their families - including housing, specialist counselling, financial assistance, and funeral arrangements. The company supported the local authorities in their investigation. Although there was no liability against the company, the company voluntarily chose to provide compensation to our employees and their dependents impacted to cover damages sustained in the fire, including loss of life, personal injury, damaged or lost personal effects, and auto loss. The safety of our employees, their dependents and our contractors is of paramount importance to us. We report on safety in our Annual Review and we adhere to the highest safety standards across our business. Safety and security have always been, and will always be, part of our corporate culture.From across the Gulf Cooperation Council, well-being practitioners gathered in Bahrain last week to discuss the benefits of investing in the well-being of employees, on the theme of “Accelerating Workplace Health and Performance Globally.” The event was organized by the Institution for Health, Productivity and Management Middle East and North Africa Chapter (IHPM-MENA) with Saudi Aramco serving as one of the event sponsors.In her keynote speech, Huda M. Al-Ghoson, executive director of Human Resources with Saudi Aramco, spoke about the important role that well-being plays in the success of organizations. Within the current dynamic landscape, an engaged workforce is the main factor in companies achieving a competitive advantage, said Al-Ghoson. Numerous scientific studies consistently show that the well-being of employees directly impacts the performance of companies, said Al-Ghoson — a founding member of the IHPM-MENA Chapter. Organizations that invest in the health of their employees benefit from lower absenteeism and higher levels of productivity, she noted. “As an HR professional, I have seen first-hand the positive effects of healthy work practices on profitability and productivity,” said Al-Ghoson. Referencing American psychologist Abraham Maslow’s Hierarchy of Needs theory, Al-Ghoson said organizations need to provide for the physical and basic needs of the workforce to enable employees to take on responsibility and innovation. When employees excel within a healthy workplace and pursue self-actualization, they can immensely assist in the organization achieving its business goals, she said.Although the losses resulting from low productivity are high, Al-Ghoson pointed out that the costs incurred from covering the medical insurance of an unhealthy workforce can be quite prohibitive. Considering the trend in medical care expenses, she added, those costs will only go up. “Investing in the workforce health is not just a nice thing to do, but actually makes economic sense,” she said. In addition to the financial returns, programs promoting a healthy lifestyle can transform employees into well-being ambassadors to spur a vibrant and productive society, she said. Employees can model and demonstrate healthy behavior to family and friends, influencing members of society to adapt an active lifestyle. “When we create alignment between physical, emotional, and mental well-being, we can create happiness, harmony, and peace,” said Al-Ghoson.Saudi Aramco launched its own wellness program and policy in 2005. In 2015, this program then evolved into a new strategic business driver known as Human Energy Management. Samantha J. Horseman of the Saudi Aramco Human Energy Management team highlighted accelerating the company’s investment in employees’ well-being through leadership and innovation, in a morning session on the first day of the three-day event. Horseman said Saudi Aramco is conducting cutting-edge research on collecting and analyzing data to highlight the association between an investment in health and the productivity of employees, Organizational Health, and Healthy Human Capital. Additionally, the company is developing technology that can uncover human–machine patterns of human behavior through machine learning and predictive analytics. She also talked about the company’s endeavor to harness the power of big data and deploy artificial intelligence, with an overlying goal of empowering employees to pursue a healthier productive lifestyle, through preventing illness and injuries on the job. “It makes sense to prevent illness,” Horseman said. “Why have all that suffering and pain if it can all be avoided through leveraging technology?.” The first day of the event featured a number of international thought leaders in well-being who highlighted some of the latest research and best practices as well as case studies. The final two days of the event were dedicated for certification training from the Health and Productivity Management Academy, which was offered for the first time in the Middle East.Inspection tools and techniques form the backbone to ensure reliable and safe operations across our facilities, as they provide the basis for effective corrosion and asset integrity management. Combatting chronic corrosion and integrity issues involves using innovative inspection techniques and equipment along with traditional methods. Sharing knowledge and experience becomes an important part of this innovation process. In line with this, our Jiddah Refinery Department (JRD) recently conducted a two-day forum under the theme “Managing Corrosion and Enhancing Inspection.”  The main goals were: The forum was attended by more than 90 representatives from various Saudi Aramco. On show were advanced testing techniques and tools such as unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), the Saudi Aramco Inspection Robot (SAIR), and ultrasonic techniques.Forum facilitator Mabber Jaafari spoke about JRD’s continuous efforts to utilize the vast opportunities at the Jiddah Refinery to test and pilot various advanced NDT technologies and innovative methodologies to share within Saudi Aramco departments. The forum provided participants an opportunity to enhance inspection skills and advanced NDT knowledge and solution methodologies, as well as to see all the latest advanced NDT and emerging technologies all under one roof. In his concluding remarks, Hussain Al Umari, acting superintendent of the Jiddah Refinery Engineering Division, emphasized the importance of inspection toward Saudi Aramco’s continuous success. “As we all know, inspection efficiency is a key driver to our business success,” he said, adding that the forum’s technical papers revealed the breadth of experience and knowledge in the inspection field by Aramcons.The Construction Industry Institute (CII) recently recognized Saudi Aramco’s East-West Pipelines Projects Department for its outstanding application of CII best practices on the Master Gas System Expansion (Phase 1) – Booster Gas Compression Stations project. Based at the at The University of Texas at Austin, the CII is a non-profit consortium of owners, engineering-contractors, and supplier firms from public and private arenas. Its 2017 CII Implementation Award was presented to Aramco during an official ceremony at the CII Annual Conference in Orlando, Florida. Each year, the conference draws together senior leadership in the construction industry and academia from throughout the world. “This is a great honor,” said Mansour S. Al-Shehri, manager of Aramco's East-West Pipelines Projects Department. “The CII award not only recognizes the team’s success in developing an optimal work environment, but also spotlights Saudi Aramco as a global leader in the capital projects industry.” The awards committee selected Aramco for both its excellent project execution strategies, as well as effective use of CII best practices. Al-Shehri said the company followed two key objectives for success; to establish and achieve critical project milestones and eliminate potential hurdles. Additionally, professional development was given a high priority: “Our team members were actively involved in formulating best practice procedures, using industry benchmarks as well as their own worksite experience for lessons learned”. One particular CII standard adopted by Aramco is called “Zero Accident Techniques,” which includes site-specific safety programs and implementation, auditing, and incentives. The company is expanding its Master Gas System to help meet the Kingdom’s increased demand for natural gas as the industrial sector grows. The project execution is being carried out in two phases. The Master Gas System lets Aramco use or market nearly all of the gas associated with oil production and all nonassociated gas produced from deep gas reservoirs. Saudi Aramco, a fully-integrated, global energy and chemicals enterprise and a world leader in exploration and production, refining and distribution, and the world’s top exporter of crude oil and natural gas liquids, has entered into a technology licensing agreement with NOMADD Desert Solar Solutions, a locally-owned technology start-up funded by the King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) and created to commercialize the NO water Mechanical Automated Dusting Device. Under the agreement, Saudi Aramco will grant NOMADD the right to develop and manufacture solar array cleaning technology that was developed in-house by Saudi Aramco’s research and development team based at KAUST. The technology will integrate with NOMADD’s fully automated waterless solar cleaning system. This is the first commercial licensing agreement between Saudi Aramco and a KAUST funded start-up company. NOMADD will distribute solar cleaning technology in Saudi Arabia and serves as an example of how a technology can be developed, commercialized, manufactured and sold creating local jobs and providing value to the Kingdom. Vice President of Technology, Oversight and Coordination, Ahmad O. Al-Khowaiter, said, “Commercializing technology that positively impacts the Kingdom is a great achievement and demonstrates Saudi Aramco’s commitment to a clean energy future.” “NOMADD is excited to partner with Saudi Aramco, KAUST and other local institutions to bring this vision to fruition," said Jos van der Hyden, founder and chief executive officer of NOMADD. "NOMADD is gaining strong commercial traction in the solar industry, winning several industry awards for technology and leadership in the field."Saudi Aramco sponsors the first of its kind Materials Performance and Welding Technologies Conference & Exhibition 2017, taking place in Sheraton Dammam Hotel & Convention Center on September 11- 14, 2017. Saudi Aramco’s plenary keynote was delivered by Fahad Al-Helal, Saudi Aramco’s Acting Vice President for Engineering Services. The event is co-organized by The National Association of Corrosion Engineers (NACE) International West Asia & Africa Area and the American Welding Society (AWS) Saudi Arabia section. In addition to plenary keynotes by Fahad Al-Helal and heads of the organizing entities, the event presents three keynote speeches, 81 technical papers, and six highly specialized workshops with participation by subject-matter experts and professionals from Saudi Aramco. “The conference is an important platform for sharing knowledge and best practices in the fields of corrosion control, materials performance and welding engineering. The workshops and technical papers presented in the event offer excellent opportunities for interaction and collaboration among experts and professional,” said Fahad Al-Helal. “We encourage technical events and initiatives that foster communication and networking among like-minded professionals.” Saudi Aramco experts and professionals from relevant fields participate in the conference by delivering important keynotes, workshops and technical papers. Examples the event’s topics include composites and ceramics, corrosion control, advanced materials, advancements in welding process and technologies, materials and failures analysis and advances in onshore and underwater repair.Aramco Asia has pledged to increase efforts to expand engagement in the downstream business with the Chinese provinces of Fujian and Yunnan, as part of the company’s commitment to promote regional economic growth and ensure energy security. The move is considered the latest endeavor under Aramco Asia’s business plan to support the flow of reciprocal investments between China and Saudi Arabia, in line with Saudi Vision 2030 and China’s “Belt and Road” Initiative. “We plan to upgrade our downstream chemical business by building a chemical hub to distribute products from our operations in this region,” said Aramco Asia president and CEO Nabil A. Al-Nuaim. “Xiamen is one of the prime candidates for this chemical hub as we can leverage the benefits from China’s Free Trade Zone (FTZ) initiative.” Al-Nuaim made the remarks while meeting with Pei Jinjia, secretary of the Communist Party of the China Xiamen Municipal Committee, in Xiamen — a coastal city in southeast China’s Fujian Province — where the company’s chemical sales office is based. Xiamen is also in close proximity to FREP, the refining and petrochemical joint venture in which Aramco holds a 25% share. “Considering the strong alignment between the Belt and Road initiative and Saudi Vision 2030, our two countries have made significant progress toward strategic partnerships, including the development of a special industrial park for Chinese investors in Jazan Economic City. Xiamen can play an important part in this development, given its role in the Maritime Silk Road,” Al-Nuaim added. From the Xiamen chemical sales office, Aramco has been successfully selling its offtake share of polyolefin products from FREP since 2013 to tap into China’s chemical market, in line with Saudi Aramco’s strategy to become global leader in refining and chemicals. Aramco markets around 400,000 tons of polyolefin per year to serve direct customers and distributors in Fujian, as well as the South, East and North regions of China. Aramco is pursuing a partnership with CNPC to own a share in the Anning refinery, a key project for Yunnan’s economic development. The project scope includes a 260,000 barrels per day refinery, a network of 637 retail stations, and 10 terminals in Yunnan Province. The project has great potential to expand its basic chemical slate, which currently includes polypropylene, aromatics and benzene. Commercial production of refined products is expected to commence by this summer. During recent discussions with Dong Hua, vice governor of Yunnan Province, in the capital city Kunming, Al-Nuaim conveyed the objectives Aramco is hoping to achieve in the downstream business and expressed the company’s interests in collaborating with state owned enterprises to expand its petrochemicals production footprint in China. “We view the investment in the Anning refinery as a strategic investment and the company is constantly paying attention to the refinery’s progress, as well as the status of our negotiations with the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC),” Al-Nuaim said. If Aramco enters into a joint venture agreement with the CNPC, it will see an annual increase of 60 to 65 retail stations to fuel Yunnan’s economic development, and to support transportation integration between Yunnan and Southeast Asia. Bilateral Saudi-Yunnan trade totaled $107 million in 2016, highlighting the already important economic relationship with Yunnan. Al-Nuaim said economic cooperation can be expanded in many other areas such as renewable energy, agriculture, mining, and infrastructure development. For both parties’ mutual benefit, the partnership will not only focus on the refining sector, but across the whole downstream value chain from refining, petrochemicals, and retail stations. Expanding the petrochemical facilities at the plant will support the province’s plan for industrial park development as well as integrating with Aramco’s global chemical portfolio, acting as a production center targeting Southeast Asia.The China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC) recently received the first-ever cargo of Arabian crude oil at its flagship Huizhou refinery in South China’s Guangdong Province. The original 240,000 barrel per day (bpd) refinery has recently completed a 200,000 bpd expansion that is configured to process sour Arab Gulf grades, and Aramco’s Arab Medium crude oil is a preferred choice for the plant’s baseload. CNOOC is the last of China’s three large national oil companies to join Saudi Aramco’s customer family. Prior to its expansion, Huizhou had no need for imported sour crudes since it mostly processed domestic oil from CNOOC’s own offshore fields. Entrusted by the government to be the sole developer of China’s offshore upstream, CNOOC in 2016 produced about 1.1 million bpd of crude oil, as well as 1.3 billion cubic feet per day of natural gas, and its total refining capacity stood at 1.2 million bpd. The vessel’s arrival at the Huizhou terminal was celebrated by an Aramco Asia delegation together with representatives from CNOOC upper management. The groundwork for this successful delivery was laid through an Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) lon future crude supply and downstream cooperation last year. The MoU came in the context of intergovernmental efforts to further energy cooperation and forge closer synergies between Saudi Vision 2030 and China’s “Belt and Road” initiative. Nabil A. Al-Nuaim, president and CEO of Aramco Asia, welcomed the news of CNOOC’s first Arabian crude oil arrival, noting: “The new crude sales agreement with CNOOC highlights that China is at the front and center of our downstream strategy and that we continue to be China’s most reliable supplier. Aramco Asia will continue to support Chinese and other Asian refiners to have access to reliable Saudi crude.” Expanding the company’s market share in China is an important strategic target, for which new crude sales agreements such as the Huizhou supply make a vital contribution. By fostering strong relationships with a diverse customer base, Aramco continues to be well positioned to play an important role in meeting China’s fast growing oil demand. Mushabab Al-Qahtani (center, back row), director of the Aramco Asia Marketing Department, and Yao Jun, deputy GM of CNOOC Petrochemical Import & Export Co., join team members for a group photo following the arrival of CNOOC’s first Arabian crude oil cargo at the Huizhou Refinery in South China’s Guangdong Province.The Dow Chemical Company (NYSE: DOW) and the Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) today announced a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that sets forth a process for Dow to acquire an additional 15 percent ownership interest from Saudi Aramco in Sadara Chemical Company (Sadara), a joint venture developed by the two companies. The current equity ownership split is 65 percent Saudi Aramco and 35 percent Dow. If the potential transaction is concluded as presently proposed, Dow and Saudi Aramco would each hold a 50 percent equity stake in Sadara. “Sadara is the result of a game-changing partnership between Saudi Aramco and Dow by delivering market-driven solutions that support the diversification of the country’s economy,” said Andrew Liveris, Dow’s chairman and CEO. “Increasing our equity stake in this iconic joint venture is a powerful example of our strategic partnership with Saudi Aramco and is yet another accelerator in Dow’s long-term growth strategy designed to capture growing consumer-led demand in our key end-markets of transportation, infrastructure, packaging, and consumer products in developing regions.” Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser said, “We are proud of our partnership with Dow given its preeminent stature among the world’s leading chemical companies. Dow’s larger stake in Sadara is an endorsement of the Kingdom’s vibrant ecosystem, and signals Dow’s confidence in our partnership as a model of mutually beneficial foreign direct investment. The time is right to fully leverage Dow’s global leadership to further contribute to the Kingdom’s economic transformation in line with Vision 2030.” The potential equity equalization would occur following the later of two events― (i) the intended separation of the Materials Science Company, within 18 months after the close of the merger of equals between Dow and DuPont (NYSE: DD) on August 31 and (ii) Sadara’s completion of the Creditors’ Reliability Test, which is part of the limited-recourse financing used to fund the Sadara project development. The anticipated financial impact of the potential transaction is not being disclosed. The Sadara financial structure and governance remain unchanged. The Sadara chemical complex―the largest of its kind ever built in a single phase―is currently operating all of its 26 world-scale units that manufacture a portfolio of valued-added performance plastics and specialty chemicals. The more than three million metric tons of performance-focused products serving the Packaging, Transportation, Infrastructure and Consumer markets will add new value chains to Saudi Arabia’s vast hydrocarbon reserves, resulting in the diversification of the economy and region.The Saudi Aramco Summer Enrichment Program (SEP) has recently completed its 2017 session, and has fulfilled a fundamental shift in its concept, transforming from what had essentially been a basic English language course to a potentially life-changing experience for the young participants. In line with the Kingdom’s Vision 2030, the program targets Saudi high school students and matches them with Saudi Aramco high-caliber Vocational College Graduate Nonemployees (VCGNEs) in value-driven activities with a goal of promoting their knowledge, skills and attitudes and preparing them to lead future generations in achieving the Kingdom’s ambitious plans and expectations. This year the course incorporated community service activities, communication skills practices, and personality development exercises. To link the students with the new objectives of the program, all Saudi Aramco values, especially safety, citizenship and accountability, were integrated into the students’ activities.As graduates of the training centers are a key source of future recruits for Saudi Aramco, ITD opened the ITC doors for all departments to visit to witness the various personal and professional development opportunities. Then acting Yanbu’ Refinery manager, Ibrahim Al-Baheli met with Yanbu’ SEP students and addressed various critical safety issues as well as other topics pertaining to the future careers of this aspiring and ambitious young generation. It was an interactive session where students eagerly participated by asking pivotal questions concerning possible future jobs with Saudi Aramco and other prospects. The presenters provided students with information about other academies and institutes that partner with Saudi Aramco and provide specialized vocational training for certain jobs related to the oil and gas industry. Most students expressed their strong intention to join Saudi Aramco upon graduation.Ahmed S. Khogeer, a senior project engineer with Saudi Aramco’s Special Kingdom Projects Department, was recently elected to the degree of fellow of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) — the highest degree of membership an engineer can reach in the institute. He is the institute’s first fellow from the Arab region. In addition, Khogeer is the first person from outside the United States to receive the Distinguished Services Award from the Fuels and Petrochemicals Division of AIChE. He received the fellowship certificate, pin and the award plaque during the AIChE 2017 spring meeting in San Antonio, Texas. At the conference, Khogeer presented a paper on Saudi Vision 2030 and its impact on oil, gas, petrochemicals, and infrastructure projects in the region. Fellowship in the AIChE can only be attained by election after being sponsored by a fellow member and supported by at least five other fellows, who are required to demonstrate the knowledge and services the nominee added to the field of chemical engineering and his competencies before the nomination is sent to the Fellows Council for election. Khogeer holds four degrees: a Ph.D. in chemical engineering, an MBA and an Advanced Project Management certificate — all from Colorado State University, and an M.S. degree in chemical engineering from the University of Tulsa — all with honors. He is registered in Saudi Arabia as a consultant engineer, which is the highest category of professional engineering in the Kingdom. Khogeer, the first Saudi specialized in catalytic cracking, has 27 years of diverse experience with Saudi Aramco in different fields, including refining, projects, lubes, facilities planning, and research and development. He is also a founding member of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology. Khogeer joined AIChE in 1998 and became heavily involved in the institute, including presenting papers internationally, chairing sessions, and serving as a director in the Fuels and Petrochemicals Division. He has also been a member of the AIChE International Committee, as well as many other roles. His efforts assisted in increasing membership, conference participants, papers, and interest in establishing AIChE chapters, and assisted universities in establishing chemical engineering departments. AIChE is the world’s leading organization for chemical engineering professionals. The institute was founded in 1908 with headquarters in New York, representing more than 50,000 members in industry, academia, and government, from more than 100 countries.Sadara Chemical Company (Sadara), a joint venture between Saudi Aramco and The Dow Chemical Company, on Monday celebrated the commissioning of the last of its 26 plants — an isocyanates section currently producing crude quantities of toluene diisocyanate (TDI) and other specialty chemicals. The landmark commissioning milestone was celebrated at the Sadara complex in Jubail Industrial City II in the presence of Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Saudi Aramco Chairman, HE Khalid A. Al-Falih; Dow chairman and CEO Andrew Liveris; and Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, chairman of Sadara and Saudi Aramco’s senior vice president of Technical Services.A first for the Gulf region, the TDI section is mainly used in the production of flexible polyurethane foam for furniture, mattresses, cushioning, and car seats. TDI also has a variety of industrial uses, such as coatings, adhesives, sealants, specialty foams, and other products. The TDI section consists of three integrated units producing dinitrotoluene (DNT), toluene diamine (TDA), and TDI. The DNT and TDA units started operations in April, and the TDI unit began crude production this week. The isocyanates envelope also includes an unprecedented integrated facility producing polymeric methylene diphenyl diisocyanate (PMDI). The PMDI plant began producing commercial quantities in early June. Additionally, Sadara is producing another important polyurethane precursor — polyether polyols. Sadara’s Polyols Plant came onstream in late July. The world’s largest integrated chemicals complex ever built in a single phase and established by the largest foreign direct investment in Saudi petrochemicals industry, Sadara has been bringing its chemical plants onstream in a carefully planned sequence and will produce more than 3 million tons of high-value performance plastics and specialty chemical products annually. Sadara’s mixed feed cracker, the heart of Sadara’s operations, started up in August 2016, cracking ethane gas and naphtha liquid feedstock to produce chemicals for the site’s other facilities. Sadara’s four polyethylene production units came online between late 2015 and early 2017. Thirty-two polyethylene products have been qualified todate, serving more than 600 customers in 70 countries. An additional four new polyethylene products will be added to Sadara’s capabilities by the end of the year.Sadara’s specialty chemicals portfolio includes facilities that manufacture propylene oxide, propylene glycol, ethylene oxide, glycol ethers, amines, isocyanates and polyether polyols.“Sadara’s commissioning positions the company to fully deliver its promise as a major catalyst for Saudi Arabia’s economic future — a promise that will be felt in human terms,” said Al-Falih. “Sadara’s slate of high-value chemicals, including many firsts for the Kingdom and the region, will create the quality performance, value-added and plastics products that support a higher living standard around the world, especially in the emerging Asia Pacific and Middle Eastern markets that will drive two-thirds of global petrochemical demand over the next decade. “In addition to transforming the Kingdom from a consumer and importer to a global exporter, Sadara will create new value chains and technologies that will attract foreign and domestic investment, spurring new sectors and entrepreneurial business, and creating thousands of manufacturing jobs for Saudis,” he added. “In this way, Sadara is perfectly aligned with the Kingdom’s national transformation goals as expressed in Saudi Vision 2030. By driving non-oil sector growth, innovation, and better life opportunities, Sadara will deliver progress and prosperity now and for generations to come.”  Liveris called the launch a “pivotal moment for this game-changing joint venture — for Dow, our partners at Saudi Aramco, and for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia — delivering market-driven solutions that have never before been manufactured in the Kingdom and supporting the diversification of its economy in line with Saudi Vision 2030. Dow has been a strategic partner in Saudi Arabia for more than four decades and is the Kingdom’s largest foreign investor. Commissioning of Sadara’s final plant marks a pivotal moment in the history of this landmark public and private partnership that advances Dow’s growth strategy and will help transform the Kingdom’s rich resources into solutions for the world through a thriving manufacturing sector.”Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser called Sadara a major milestone in Saudi Aramco’s strategic intent to become the world’s foremost integrated energy and chemicals company. “Sadara is a flagship chemicals project that significantly advances our ability to derive the maximum value from every hydrocarbon molecule, and to participate more broadly across the petroleum value chain,” Nasser said. “The closer integration of Saudi Aramco’s refining networks with chemical production brings greater resilience and robustness to our portfolio. Using raw materials provided by SABIC, SATORP, and Sadara itself, the complex will transform raw materials and feedstocks into high-value products — a position of strength that drives business growth. Our strategy to make chemicals a top-tier global business will have a multiplier effect on jobs, industries and technologies, especially through industrial parks as a base for conversion industries making plastics and plastic products from petrochemicals. As a creator of entirely new products and industries, Sadara is a transformational company that will benefit all stakeholders,” he added. Al Sa’adi said, “Sadara has come a long way from the shareholder agreement signing six years ago to the official inauguration in November. Yet the commissioning of all our plants is not the finish line, but Sadara’s start in meeting rising demand for high-quality chemicals, plastics, and performance products, especially in emerging markets, and stimulating Saudi Arabia’s industrial growth across the automotive, construction, manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and consumer goods sectors. ”The Sadara chairman added, “The future will be demanding, but our determination and commitment are more than equal to the task. Knowing Sadara’s ‘can do’ attitude, I’m confident that we will exceed the expectations that our shareholders have set for us.”Strategically located to benefit from competitive feedstocks, Sadara will serve the needs of Dow customers across the Asia Pacific, India, the Middle East, Africa, and Central and Eastern Europe. To date, Sadara has employed more than 4,100 people — the majority of whom are Saudis. Almost 2,000 of these employees have completed intensive, technology-centric, on-the-job training (OJT) programs at various Saudi Aramco and Dow sites in Saudi Arabia and around the world for advanced chemicals production technologies knowledge. The Sadara OJT program is one of the largest and most sophisticated technological training programs ever undertaken by any company in Saudi Arabia. In addition, the PlasChem Park, a world-class industrial park for chemical and conversion industries created by a collaboration between Sadara and the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu’, is expected to attract quality investments valued at SR20 billion, and to create thousands of direct and indirect jobs.Working day and night, a group of diligent employees in the deep waters of the Arabian Gulf recently, and successfully, demothballed the Zuluf Gas-Oil Separation Plant 3 (GOSP-3) after several months of hard work on the plant’s platforms.For a fifth straight year, Aramco participated in North America’s Unconventional Resources Technology Conference (URTeC) with an eye toward learning and sharing its proficiency in optimizing production from unconventional resources — namely shale and tight gas. Aramco has added an international dimension to URTeC since the conference debuted in 2013. Upstream staff members have served on the technical program committee since the beginning, helping to build the conference’s reputation for high-impact research and development. This year, upstream professionals and researchers from Houston and Dhahran were integrally involved throughout the three-day conference by chairing technical sessions, participating in panel discussions, and presenting papers. Saudi Aramco signed a contract with a consortium comprising Saudi Archirodon Company Ltd and Huta Hegerfeld AG Saudia Company for dredging, reclamation and marine structures for King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services in Ras Al-Khair.    The contract is the first major undertaking for the maritime complex where contractors will conduct dredging and reclamation of approximately 37 million cubic meters of fill, in addition to ground improvement over an area of 7.4 million square meters. The contract will also provide for constructing 4,500 linear meters of concrete quay walls and wharves, in addition to 12,000 linear meters of rock revetments and breakwaters to protect the integrity of the complex.   “It is an important milestone for King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services, the largest of its kind in the region.” said Ahmed Al-Sa’adi, Saudi Aramco’s Senior Vice President for Technical Services. “The Complex is in line with the Kingdom’s economic diversification objectives, it will position the Kingdom as a strategic logistics hub and will create vast job opportunities.”   Execution of the initial phase of the contract will be completed by 2020. It is instrumental for the whole program as it will prepare the project’s land for subsequent construction of a dry dock and ship building and maintenance facilities.   The Complex was inaugurated in November 2016 by The Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud in Ras Al-Khair, near Jubail in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. The complex is a commercial maritime project that complements the growth of the Saudi energy industry and helps to meet the development and diversification objectives outlined by Saudi Vision 2030.   The facility will offer quality, efficiency and economies of scale, and when completed will offer vessel and rig build, maintenance, repair and overhaul services. The project will comply with all of the Saudi government’s environmental and sustainability requirements. Saudi Aramco’s commitment to develop a competitive and reliable local supply chain through its In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program was given a significant boost with the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with one of its key supply chain partners, Kellogg Brown & Root Limited (KBR). Hosted by Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser, the MoU signing was the latest major milestone for the ambitious IKTVA program, which strives to expand business operations that help drive value creation and maximize long-term economic growth, diversification, job creation, and workforce development to support a rapidly changing business environment. The program will enable the company to achieve at least 70% of its procurement spending within the Kingdom’s supply chain by 2021. With the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 plan, IKTVA is part of a broad-based effort to strengthen and diversify the Saudi economy, through the localization of key manufacturing and service industries within the Kingdom, and the creation of thousands of new jobs for talented young Saudi citizens. Nasser and KBR’s president and CEO, Stuart Bradie, signed the MoU in the presence of Technical Services senior vice president Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, Procurement and Supply Chain Management acting executive director Mohammed Al Shammari, as well as KBR’s president of Engineering and Construction for the Middle East and North Africa, Jay Ibrahim. By signing the MoU, KBR has committed itself to a five-year action plan to expand and develop KBR’s physical and human capital within the Kingdom to promote Saudi Aramco’s interests in creating and maintaining a reliable local supply, as well as fortifying the local economy through localizing goods and services. The IKTVA action plan will help to ensure that KBR remains compliant with the IKTVA program and will aid Saudi Aramco in meeting the 2021 objectives. The action plan includes provisions for cooperation between the two companies, including the sharing of information to help Saudi Aramco monitor KBR’s compliance with the IKTVA action plan, as well as provisions for business development, in which both parties can seek opportunities to expand their current business relationship.What do you get when you put an inventor, industrial design specialist, patent attorney, commercialization and licensing specialist, and entrepreneurial specialist together in one room for three days? The answer is the ultimate mentorship accelerator for taking great ideas to market. Add 30 engaged, empowered and energized participants to the mix, and you have the ultimate group to navigate a robust innovation ecosystem. The outcome is an Innovation Professional Certification, with the next cohort planned for August. To date, this certification has resulted in a total of nine startup companies. In the latest certification workshop, participants were placed in three startup companies and awarded a mock seed fund of $100,000, and then asked to worked their way through the eight sectors of the Saudi Aramco innovation ecosystem.Never before has it been more critical to create a learning mindset culture with an entrepreneurial flair to meet the challenges facing Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom. Saudi Aramco implemented its 2020 Strategic Intent to align the foundations to become a fully integrated, global energy enterprise. Saudi Aramco’s growth aspirations are taking place within the larger context of Vision 2030, which seeks to reinforce and diversify the country’s economy. These ambitious game changers compel us to challenge our ability to innovate, become agile and embrace change. Creating and sustaining a robust, innovative, and forward-thinking culture will ensure a highly engaged, energized and productive workforce that will successfully navigate the company’s and Kingdom’s future aspirations.Professor Daniele Daffonchio and research scientist Dr. Ramona Marasco of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) recently spent three days in Shaybah undertaking deep desert ecological fieldwork, which formally commences the collaborative biodiversity research within Saudi Aramco’s newly created Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary (SWS). Deep within the Rub’ al-Khali (Empty Quarter) desert, unusual plant species grow that seem to defy all logic. Despite a summer heat of 50 degrees, no irrigation, near zero rainfall, and a lack of organic material in the desert sands, a few unique plant species have found a way to survive, where all other plants cannot. “How is this possible? What specialized properties do these plants possess? Why do they grow in some areas of the Rub’ al-Khali, but are absent in others? To safeguard and increase the numbers of these rare species inside the SWS, questions such as these will need to be answered,” explains Wayne Sweeting, scientific and operations coordinator at SWS. “KAUST and our company have an established and enduring relationship. As soon as we were ready to commence ecological research within the sanctuary, they were naturally our first point of call. We look forward to collaboratively working on biodiversity research projects and jointly publishing the results in the future,” says Samer Abduljabbar, superintendent, Shaybah Producing Engineering Division. Daffonchio leads the Extreme Systems Microbiology Lab (ESM Lab) within KAUST that investigates soil microbial ecology in extreme arid environments. His current projects include studies in the Sahara and Namib deserts. He proposes that a key factor to the plant’s survivorship in the Empty Quarter may actually be due to the tiniest of creatures, including bacteria, fungi and other micro-sized lifeforms, which form a microbial community inhabiting the golden desert sands. KAUST researchers and the SWS rangers installed a suite of underground probes, which will log temperature and other environmental parameters for six months to characterize and compare soil conditions in areas comprising sand dunes and salt flats (sabkhas). Additionally, a number of soil, root and vegetation samples were collected. These will be analyzed in the KAUST ESM Lab in Thuwal to identify and describe the microbial lifeforms present inside the SWS for the first time.Southern Area Oil Operations has successfully completed the world’s first pilot project to implement Advanced Process Control (APC) technology in the Khurais oil field to reduce power consumption by efficiently managing electrical submersible pumps (ESPs) that are located inside the well. This cutting-edge technology positions Saudi Aramco as a leader of automation technology in conventional oil fields. The technology leverages upon the intelligent field infrastructure setup at Khurais and data analytics to develop models that adjust the well flow variables. It consistently monitors all available measurements and remotely optimizes the ESP’s speed and frequency, and adjusts the motorized production choke valve, as necessary, to achieve the required production targets. As part of the pilot implementation, the technology has been successfully implemented at 13 oil wells, with demonstrated tangible benefits of improved well flow compliance, and reduced ESP power consumption. Other benefits include improved run life of the ESPs, improved safety by reducing field trips of the field crew, and the ability to manage production target changes efficiently. Building upon the success of the pilot implementation, the plan is to roll out the technology to the entire Khurais oil field, resulting in significant power savings. Installing and upgrading servers and configuring wells for the APC application are ongoing, and full implementation is expected on more than 500 wells by the end of 2018.Saudi Aramco, King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) and ANSYS (a global leader in engineering simulation) have set a new supercomputing milestone by scaling ANSYS® Fluent® to nearly 200,000 processor cores — enabling organizations to make critical and cost-effective decisions faster and increase the overall efficiency of oil and gas production facilities. This supercomputing record represents a more than 5x increase over the record set just three years ago, when Fluent first reached the 36,000-core scaling milestone. The calculations were run on the Shaheen II, a Cray® XC40™ supercomputer, hosted at the KAUST Supercomputing Core Lab (KSL). By leveraging high performance computing (HPC), ANSYS, Saudi Aramco and KSL increased a complex simulation of a separation vessel — from several weeks to an overnight run.This simulation is critical to all oil and gas production facilities — empowering organizations around the world to reduce design development time and better predict equipment performance under varying operational conditions. Saudi Aramco will apply this technology to make more informed, timely decisions to retrofit separation vessels to optimize operations throughout an oil field’s lifetime. “Today’s regulatory requirements and market expectations mean that manufacturers must develop products that are cleaner, safer, more efficient and more reliable,” said Wim Slagter, director of HPC and cloud alliances at ANSYS. “To reach such targets, designers and engineers must understand product performance with higher accuracy than ever before — especially for separation technologies, where an improved separation performance can immediately increase the efficiency and profitability of an oil field. The supercomputing collaboration between ANSYS, Saudi Aramco and KSL enabled enhanced insight in complex gas, water and crude oil flows inside a separation vessel, which include a liquid-free surface, phase mixing and droplets settling phenomena.” “Our oil and gas facilities are among the largest in the world. We selected a complex representative application — a multiphase gravity separation vessel — to confirm the value of HPC in reducing turnover time, which is critical to our industry,” said Ehab Elsaadawy, computational modeling specialist and oil treatment team leader at Saudi Aramco’s Research and Development Center. “By working with our strategic partner, KAUST, we can now run these complex simulations in one day instead of weeks.”KSL’s Shaheen II supercomputer is a Cray system composed of 6,174 nodes representing 197,568 processor cores tightly integrated with a richly layered memory hierarchy and interconnection network."This was a typical Saudi Aramco separation vessel with typical operation conditions," said Jysoo Lee, director of KSL. "ANSYS provides a viable tool for Saudi Aramco to solve their design and analysis problems using the full capacity of Shaheen II; and for a KAUST and Saudi Aramco R&D collaboration, this is our first development work. There are more projects in the pipeline.”Scientists from Saudi Aramco’s Fuel Technology Program (FUELCOM) recently won the prestigious 2017 Harry L. Horning Memorial Award, a sign that the company’s Research and Development Center (R&DC) is well on its way toward changing the way automakers design future car engines and the fuels they use. At the award ceremony, held recently at the Society of Automotive Engineers’ (SAE) 2017 World Congress in Detroit, Michigan, Saudi Aramco scientists Gautam Kalghatgi, Hassan Babiker, and Jihad Badra were recognized for their “outstanding” SAE technical paper, “A Simple Method to Predict Knock Using Toluene, N-Heptane and Iso-Octane Blends (TPRF) as Gasoline Surrogates.” “This research is about improving the efficiency of spark-ignition engines,” Kalghatgi explained. “One of the major reasons limiting the efficiency of today’s car engines is something that we call ‘knock.’ Engineers have known about knock for a long time, but predicting when knock occurs is very difficult. What the paper did is to establish a simple process for predicting when knock occurs in engines. If we can predict knock, then we can work to find different quality fuels and different engine designs to eliminate knock and make our engines more efficient, and we can reduce emissions as well.” Named after SAE past president Harry L. Horning and established in 1938, the Horning Memorial Award recognizes accomplishments and acknowledges contributions through research and development to the better mutual adaptation of fuels and internal combustion engines.  Through Horning’s efforts, the technologies of the petroleum and automotive industries became closely allied in the pursuit of improved mutual adaptability of engines and fuels, and the Horning Memorial Award is a motivation for others who follow in his footsteps. Amer A. Amer, the chief technologist of the Fuel Technology Division at the R&DC, said, “The award is an endorsement of Saudi Aramco’s leading role and growing competency in the field of fuels used in transportation. By making internal combustion engines more efficient and mutually adapting engine design with fuels, Saudi Aramco is helping to ensure the importance of hydrocarbon fuels for decades to come.” By taking the lead in the search for efficient engine fuel systems, Saudi Aramco is not only adding to the world’s understanding in hydrocarbon fuel combustion. It is also helping to set a new course for the auto industry and influence the design of cars that we’ll all drive in the future.In the heart of the desert, and close to Pump Station 3, which is only 100 kilometers from Riyadh, there is a story worth telling — a story whose heroes are young Saudis working at Saudi Aramco facilities who are involved with the important achievement of building the first two booster compressor stations in the Kingdom. These are the first in a series of stations that will lead to a breakthrough and help meet the rapidly increasing demand for natural gas in the Kingdom. They will also reduce the demand for crude oil and its use in power generation, as well as promote environmental conservation through the use of natural gas as a clean fuel.Aramco Asia, China Daily and Xiamen University recently launched a joint corporate social responsibility (CSR) program to support students of Xiamen University who are interested in clean energy, entrepreneurship, and sustainable development, as well as ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The partnership came under the context of the Aramco Asia’s continuous endeavor to enhance energy innovation, sustainability and community engagement. It was the third consecutive year that the company offered financial support in the form of donations to benefit students. Being a global energy enterprise, CSR is at the top of Aramco Asia’s priority list and the company constantly pushes itself to be among the frontrunners in CSR activities. Since the establishment of the Asian headquarters in 2012, Aramco Asia has started CSR efforts to promote sustainable social, knowledge and environmental development in areas where it has a presence. Speaking at the program commencement in Xiamen University on June 15, Mahir M. Showdari, Aramco Asia Chemicals director and Xiamen branch manager, noted, “Under this agreement, we will offer our professional and technical support to the students at Xiamen University, enhancing their innovative experience and academic aspiration in terms of energy and environmental protection. We will collaborate to transform ideas into sustainable solutions and provide long-term value for the local community. I do hope the program will enable students to combine ingenuity with practicality.” Saudi Aramco believes innovation connects people, ideas and energy to realize the full potential of our resources, amplifying their benefits to power opportunities. More importantly, the knowledge-based innovation was also defined as one of the key elements by Saudi Vision 2030, which is complementary to China’s “Belt and Road” initiative proposed by President Xi Jinping in advancing regional cooperation. “I want to thank everyone involved in the planning and implementation of this program,” said Deng Jingyang, deputy director of the Modern Education and Training Center, Xiamen University. “I think this event provides a unique opportunity for students of Xiamen University to show their talents. It will fire students’ interests in the development of new energy and environmental protection, with innovation playing a key role. My appreciation also goes to Aramco Asia, who lent us great support.” The role of oil as a vital source of energy to the world is expected to continue for the long term despite the growth of alternatives, said Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco. At the World Petroleum Congress in Istanbul today, Nasser reiterated in a keynote to heads of state, government ministers, and executives that new investments are necessary and crucial to ensuring global energy security. Nasser offered insights on the future of energy and how Saudi Aramco is transforming to meet new economic realities and industry demands. Noting historic trends which saw a rise in absolute demand for legacy fuels despite a drop in market share, Nasser predicted in the next 25 years a doubling of the world economy, plus an additional two billion energy consumers, resulting in a lengthy energy transition that alternative sources such as renewables cannot adequately support. “There’s a growing belief that the world can prematurely disengage from proven, reliable energy sources like oil and gas, on the assumption that alternatives will rapidly deploy,” Nasser said. “About $1 trillion in investments has been lost in the current downturn, concurrent to growing oil demand and the natural decline of developed fields. Conservative estimates suggest we need about 20 million [additional] barrels per day over the next five years to counter these effects.” The volume of conventional oil discovered around the world halved over the past four years, compared to the previous four, according to Nasser, leading to an investment shortfall and the start of a cycle that may inhibit a future energy transition. Nasser identified three areas that can build resilience and discipline for the transition: available supplies; cost structure and portfolio integration; and emissions reduction. Addressing supplies, Nasser noted, “Saudi Aramco plans to invest more than $300 billion over the coming decade to reinforce our preeminent position in oil, maintain our spare oil production capacity and pursue a large exploration and production program centered on conventional and unconventional gas resources.” Portfolio integration is also important, as Saudi Aramco emerges as the world’s largest and most integrated energy producer. The company has identified refining and chemicals, among other areas, as key drivers of long-term value and growth. Leveraging innovation and technology to make the use of oil and gas ultra-clean relates to Saudi Aramco’s commitment to the Paris Climate Agreement. “We aim to double our natural gas production to 23 billion standard cubic feet per day (scf/d) over the coming decade, and raise the share of gas in the Kingdom’s utilities to about 70 percent, the highest of any G20 nation,” Nasser said. “We have collaborated with many oil and gas companies to promote low-emission solutions, to include our commitment to the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative’s $1 billion investment fund to develop and rapidly deploy those technologies.” Nasser also noted that Saudi Aramco is prioritizing the direct conversion of oil to petrochemicals as a major part of its long-term strategic focus. The company is also investing in solar energy, having launched a phased program to build an initial renewable capacity of 9.5 GW by 2023. Nasser concluded that while the industry can take pride in a history of significant economic contributions, it must adopt a future strategy calculated for the energy transformation. “Industry leaders and policy makers must develop an aligned and compelling narrative to attract the level of investments we need,” he said. “Part of that effort will be transforming our own business model to ensure that oil and gas are not just proven, reliable energy sources, but are as clean and affordable as possible, without compromising the world’s energy security,” he said.Your Excellencies, Distinguished Guests, Ladies and Gentlemen, good morning, and Günaydin. Let me thank the World Petroleum Council for inviting me to address this premier gathering of the oil and gas industry in one of the world’s great cities. Like many of you, I was here in Istanbul last October for the World Energy Congress. There was widespread agreement that even as the world transitions to alternatives, the petroleum industry will continue to be at the heart of the global energy mix for the foreseeable future. But for oil and gas to maintain that role, while continuing to ensure global energy security, there are several realities that need to be considered in any broad-based energy strategy. So today I would like to elaborate on those realities, and how we are responding to them at Saudi Aramco. To begin with, if our history is any guide, there can be little debate that the energy transition already underway will be a long and complex process. It took coal more than a century to partially displace biofuels and reach a share of 50%. It took oil 80 years to do the same. While natural gas has taken more than 80 years to reach just 25% of total energy consumption. Looking at today’s energy mix, the expectations for alternatives are through the roof. But while electric vehicles are making progress, the reality on the ground is that they make up less than two tenths of a percent of the 1.2 billion total vehicle fleet. Even under the most aggressive 2 degrees climate change scenario, the International Energy Agency still does not see that share reaching 10% by 2030. As for renewables, they are also gaining ground. But their intermittent nature, and the need for large scale electricity storage and grid stability, are still major challenges. And, in any case, they do not directly compete with oil. In other words, history is repeating itself. It still takes a long time for new fuels to seize market share from legacy fuels. Furthermore, even when legacy fuels do begin to lose market share, history tells us that absolute demand for them continues to rise significantly for long periods of time. Coal is a good example. While its share peaked in the early 1900s and has now dropped to around 30% today, absolute demand for coal has risen by about 200 folds since then. As well as the lessons from history, what we already know about the future will also have a massive impact on the transition. Over the next quarter of century, we are going to see: The implications are clear. Though the level by which global energy demand grows could vary as the energy transition unfolds, there is no debating the growth itself. So these are the realities that we face. An energy transition that is likely to be just as long (and certainly more complex) than any we have previously experienced. A long period when alternatives will not be ready to shoulder a major burden of supplying adequate and affordable clean energy. And rising demand for all sources of energy – with oil and gas at the heart of the mix – will be the reality for decades to come. So far so good, but is the world paying enough attention to ensuring adequate energy supplies during the long transition? There seems to be a growing belief that the world can prematurely disengage from proven and reliable energy sources like oil and gas, on the mistaken assumption that alternatives will be rapidly deployed. If we look at the long-term situation of oil supplies, for example, the picture is becoming increasingly worrying. About $1 trillion in investments have already been lost since the current downturn began. We then have the growing oil demand I just mentioned and the natural decline of developed oil fields. Even conservative estimates suggest about 20 million barrels per day needs to be offset over the next five years to counter these two effects. That is a lot of production capacity to be made up. New discoveries are also on a major downward trend. The volume of conventional oil discovered around the world over the past four years has more than halved compared with the previous four. And none of this is being helped by misleading narratives about ‘peak oil demandʼ and ‘stranded resources’. As a result, financial investors are shying away from making much needed large investments in oil exploration, long-term development, and the related infrastructure. Investments in smaller increments such as shale oil will just not cut it. Yet without those higher investment levels, the energy transition (and therefore energy security) may be fatally compromised. Of course, raising investment levels is not the only game in town. The continuing market volatility is a powerful reminder that we must transform our own business model to build the resilience and discipline that will see us through the transition. At Saudi Aramco, we are working hard in three interrelated areas. First, when it comes to ensuring that adequate and affordable supplies of oil and gas are available throughout the transition, we are continuing to make the required long-term investments. We plan to invest more than $300 billion over the coming decade to reinforce our preeminent position in oil, maintain our spare oil production capacity, and pursue a large exploration and production program centering on conventional and unconventional gas resources. Second, a key lesson of the downturn is that strong financial capacity is essential to our ability to get through such periods and make those long-term investments. We are focusing on our underlying cost structure, because greater efficiency and cost competitiveness – without compromising on safety or the environment – is mission critical for everyone. We also firmly believe that integration can strengthen our portfolio resilience, as our refining and chemicals strategies attest. Third, we must leverage the power of innovation and technology to make the use of oil and gas ultra clean and minimize emissions, as part of the Kingdom’s commitment to the Paris Agreement. For example, doubling our production of natural gas to 23BSCFD over the coming decade will raise the share of gas in the Kingdom’s utilities to about 70% – the highest of any G20 nation. We are also working with auto manufacturers to develop ultra clean engine-fuels systems of the future. And we have partnered with many of the oil and gas companies here today to promote low emissions technologies. In particular, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, OGCI, is investing $1 billion to develop and accelerate the commercial deployment of those technologies. Elsewhere, we are paying special attention to advancing Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage technologies which have the potential to turn legacy fuels into zero-emission fuels. And we are promoting the non-combustible uses of oil, which reduce greenhouse gas emissions from oil in a major way. It is why we are prioritizing the direct conversion of crude oil into petrochemicals. But we are not just focusing on conventional energy sources. With economic diversification and future energy transformation in mind, the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 sees Saudi Arabia becoming nothing less than a solar powerhouse. The Kingdom has already launched a phased program to build an initial renewables capacity of 9½GW by 2023, and Saudi Aramco will play an increasing role in achieving this critical goal. Ladies and Gentlemen, like Istanbul, we can be proud of our history. But we must also follow its example and write a new history for our industry if we are to succeed in energy transformation while effectively managing transition. Industry leaders and policy makers must develop an aligned and compelling narrative that will attract the level of investments we need. Part of that will be transforming our own business model to ensure that oil and gas are not just proven and reliable energy sources, but are as clean and affordable as possible. Another part will be helping new energy sources to overcome the obstacles they face. All without compromising the world’s energy security. In other words, the roles of legacy fuels and evolving alternative energy sources need optimal shaping. If, together, we can shape them, I believe a re-aligned, re-energized, and re-focused petroleum industry can drive global development for generations more to come. Thank you, and Teşekkür ederim.Saudi Aramco today released its 2016 Annual Review, highlighting the significant calendar year achievements in progressing its long-term strategy as the world's leading integrated energy company. 2016 highlights: Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco said: “Driven by operational efficiency and fiscal discipline, we continued to build and deliver on our strategic goals in 2016 despite the backdrop of a challenging environment. The company crossed a threshold in its transformative journey to optimize its operations and maximize delivery across all of its capabilities. At the same time, we remained true to our commitments of value creation, technology delivery, and human capital development.” Saudi Aramco continued to deliver significant achievements to progress its long-term, integrated strategy despite persistently low oil prices and weak growth in the global market. The Company’s upstream business has a resilient low cost position which will endure based on premium reservoir characteristics and Saudi Aramco’s unwavering focus on operational excellence and project management. In 2016, Saudi Aramco continued to achieve milestones in exploration and capacity expansion. The Company discovered two new oil fields and one new gas field; added 250,000 barrels of crude oil production per day to its Shaybah facility where it also started a second natural gas liquids processing train; and reached full operational feed capacity of 2.5 Bscfd at the Wasit Gas Plant. Saudi Aramco strengthened its downstream strategy, taking further steps to expand and integrate its domestic and global portfolio. In-Kingdom, the Sadara joint venture with The Dow Chemical Company, with a production capacity of 3 million tons of performance plastics, started commissioning of the region’s first mixed feed cracker; the Phase II Petro Rabigh ethane cracking project with Japan’s Sumitomo Chemical Co. achieved full operation; and the Company's 400,000 bpd Jazan refinery reached 55% completion. Internationally, in the U.S., Saudi Aramco signed an agreement with Shell to separate the assets of Motiva Enterprises, paving the way for further downstream expansion. In the Netherlands, Saudi Aramco launched Arlanxeo, a specialty chemicals joint venture with LANXESS. The company also began volume exports of aramcoDura — a new base oil product brand. Further advancing the company’s environmental commitment, Saudi Aramco acquired Converge® — a breakthrough technology that converts CO2 into cleaner, high-value end products with significant performance, cost, and carbon footprint improvements. Saudi Aramco continued to focus its research and development on high impact technologies with the potential to create significant competitive advantage. The company’s R&D commitment resulted in 285 new patents filed and 175 new patents awarded. Saudi Aramco also achieved breakthroughs, such as the industry’s first trillion-cell simulation and hydrocarbon migration algorithm, making it possible to model the physics of hydrocarbon reservoirs from their original generation to their final production. The Company also signed a Heads of Agreement with Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) to conduct a feasibility study on the development of a fully integrated crude oil-to-chemicals complex. Phase 1 of the study was completed in 2016. Sustainability remained a major innovation focus. In 2016, the level of flared gas per raw gas production continued at less than 1% and is set to decline further. The company recovered more than 9 Bscf of gas through its zero discharge technology. Saudi Aramco also collaborated with GE to install the Kingdom's first wind turbine at the Turaif Bulk Plant; progressed partnerships on fuel and engine research with U.S. and European automakers; and alongside the member companies of the Oil and Gas Climate Investments Initiative, pledged an investment of $100 million to develop and accelerate the commercial deployment of innovative, low-emission technologies. Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program enables a thriving commercial ecosystem that benefits our business and the country. In 2016, the Company increased its value of material procurement from local manufacturers by $800 million to $2.9 billion, reaching the highest level of locally sourced content in the company’s history. Saudi Aramco also signed numerous joint ventures throughout the year in connection to the IKTVA program, including with GE, Schlumberger, Nabors Industries and Rowan Companies. More than 6,800 participants attended training at Saudi Aramco’s Upstream Professional Development Center; nearly 4,000 Saudi nationals graduated from the Apprentice Program and joined the company’s workforce; and more than 2,000 students were sponsored and enrolled in global universities. Consistent with Saudi Vision 2030’s drive to build a knowledge economy, Saudi Aramco invested in youth programs focused on science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) skills. It delivered the STEMania program, which seeks to increase the number of women entering STEM fields to 300 students in the Eastern Province. CEO Amin Nasser commented, “I want to thank our people for the many significant contributions they made in 2016. Their inspiration and dedication have once again shown that, despite short-term strains, we remain dedicated to turning potential into opportunity and generating more value.” The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, inaugurated the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, the company’s initiative to drive the country’s creativity and culture. Moreover, Saudi Aramco will continue investing in innovative technology, supporting the country’s energy future through a shift to clean gas for utilities. Looking ahead to the future, CEO Amin Nasser said: “We are determined to create additional value for the company. We will maintain our focus on reliable energy supply to customers around the world, and envision pursuing ultra-clean sustainable oil, doubling our gas supplies, establishing a leading position in renewables, and becoming a global powerhouse in refining chemicals and marketing, all enabled by the finest technologies and most talented employees in the world.”Collaboration and technology go hand-in-hand and this was on full display when the Aramco Fuel Research Center (AFRC) in Paris unveiled the latest development in its energy efficient, Octane-on-Demand (OoD) engine technology. Since 2013 the project has been a collaboration with prestigious French energy research institute IFP Energies nouvelles (IFPEN), with the goal of improving fuel efficiency and reducing emissions. IFPEN, a leader in its field, which also receives Saudi Aramco sponsored students, brings with it a very strong background in engine fuel matching, and for its part, Saudi Aramco brings knowledge of fuel production and industrial networks.The current vehicle technology relies on a dual fuel concept allowing real-time modification of the fuel’s anti-knock quality, therefore minimizing CO2 emissions. Measurements showed that the OoD concept delivers a 4% reduction in the tailpipe CO2 emissions, while the CO2 intensity of the fuel is also around 9% lower than that of conventional fuel. It is estimated that an additional 15% reduction in CO2 emissions could be achieved by combining the OoD concept with the other advanced engine technologies. For AFRC director Calendini, this is only the start, with other exciting projects already underway at the research center. “At this time we have a vehicle that uses two tanks with two different fuels. The next step is to use only one fuel and process it with an on-board fuel upgrading system. We are working with Dhahran to build the first prototype and hope to send it to the Kingdom for testing soon.” Saudi Aramco’s research in the field of fuels technology is part of our commitment to a cleaner environment, as demonstrated in the leading role the company took in Oil and Gas Climate Initiative and COP21 deliberations. In addition, Saudi Aramco can leverage our strategic position within an established automotive ecosystem to become a technology leader in fuels and transportation.Saudi Aramco, Dussur – the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investments Company, and Hyundai Heavy Industries (HHI) announced a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to jointly collaborate on engines and pumps business development in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The MOU lays out a comprehensive engine and pump business cooperation framework, through the formation of a joint venture (JV) to manufacture 2-stroke engines, 4-stroke engines, and marine pumps; including sales and aftersales services in the MENA region. The manufacturing facility will be co-located with the maritime yard in Ras Al-Khair, at the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and services, where it will develop synergies with several complementary ventures. The new JV will manufacture 4-stroke engines under HHI’s HiMSEN brand licensing, serving as a regional production stronghold to support the growing demand for electricity in the MENA region as well as marine applications for very large and small vessels. The new JV will also operate under a MAN-HHI sublicense for the manufacturing and servicing of 2-stroke engines. The parties have identified strong economic and strategic levers to the new JV such as the lower costs of production due to the advantaged supply of machine finished steel and iron components for engines and pumps from the casting and forging facility JV in Ras Al-Khair, fixed and variable costs synergies related to the integration of 2 and 4 stroke engines in one shop, competitive advantaged related to the transportation of such engines from other international sources, increasing demand of 4 stroke engines either as complementary or backup power generation systems to support the growing demand for renewable power generation and remotely located new power plants, and the secured demand for engines and pumps in marine applications coming from the maritime yard JV, in addition to a number of other internal advantages related to the contribution of each partner to the deal.  The engine and pump JV is expected to generate over 650 direct jobs, as well as indirect jobs through the development of the supply chain. The parties are preparing to engage in the development of detailed documentation to reach a final investment decision, with the expectation the facility will commence operation by end of 2019.As part of Saudi Aramco’s corporate social responsibility (CSR), Aramco Asia-Japan (AAJ) has partnered with Japan’s Arid Land Research Center (ALRC), Tottori University to support their dryland research efforts. ALRC is the only institute in Japan specializing in dryland-related research, with some of their works receiving recognition globally. Through AAJ, the center has established contact with the Environment Protection Department (EPD) at Saudi Aramco — a unit that has a long and established track record in the areas of effective management of sand and desert animals in the Kingdom. A three-day program to Saudi Arabia, organized by EPD, began with the hosts presenting their biodiversity protection and enhancement program while Yamanaka Norikazu, head of ALRC, described his project on afforestation along the roads in China, a subject of much interest for EPD as the Kingdom is facing similar challenges. The EPD team headed by terrestrial ecologist Chris Boland organized field trips for the visiting Japanese delegation with the first trip to the recently inaugurated Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary. Three endangered species — Arabian oryx, Arabian sand gazelles, and ostriches — have been reintroduced at the sanctuary to help restore these animals within the Kingdom. “As an oil and gas company, Saudi Aramco’s commitment to the environment is truly impressive,” Yamanaka said. EPD also took the Japanese visitors to the mountainous area of Abha to observe traditional wheat production. Tsujimoto Hisashi of ALRC, a specialist in wheat production, had opportunities to interview local farmers and examined the local species. “I had been interested in how the Middle East origin crops had propagated to East Africa. Our visit this time to the traditional cereal culture in Abha was out of the cultivation season, but I managed to find oats, bread wheat, and macaroni wheat — many of which the genetic types seem indigenous,” said Tsujimoto. “I should be able to collect further information by revisiting the area during the high season. I hope to build more knowledge on the Kingdom’s agricultural policy to search for common ground that would lead us to some joint research in future.” For ALRC, in spite of numerous studies overseas using their well-established network, Saudi Arabia was one place left unexplored until now, making this visit extremely special. “Seeing the red sand dunes of Shaybah, the vegetated valleys of the Asir Mountains, and the salty sabkhas was a dream come true … the plant species that exist in each location differed greatly. But there were also some familiar plants that I had seen before in the deserts of Asia, so I felt the connection between the Kingdom and East Asia through our deserts,” Yamanaka said. “Combatting desertification is one of the greatest challenges facing people and companies in arid regions of the world. It is a global issue and requires a global effort to address it, so it is very valuable to learn from the experiences of the ALRC, which has been studying desertification for decades across Asia and Africa,” said Chris Boland. Both ALRC and Saudi Aramco EPD hope to maintain this newly fostered relationship.&nbsp; “I was pleased to hear that Saudi Aramco is thinking of critical issues such as greening along roads, and that idea is to plant local plant species, which is the modern global trend in restoring the natural environment,” said Tsujimoto. “At ALRC, we have solid experience in data collection using drones, monitoring the activities of large animals, and using plants to manage moving desert sands. Some of these methods could be applied on a large-scale at particular Saudi Aramco projects to assist monitoring and management of the ecosystem,” Yamanaka said after his return to Japan. “I am delighted and thrilled to see this bond between ALRC and AAJ, initiated in Japan, is now taking some potential shape and connecting its scope with the Kingdom. I am looking forward to seeing some form of a joint research materialized in the future by those professionals from both ends of Asia,” said AAJ representative director Anwar Hejazi. Khursaniyah oil field provided the venue for the recent 2017 desert cleanup campaign held under the theme “Together, We Make Our Field Better.” Aramco’s Manifa Producing Department (MPD), Khursaniyah Industrial Security, the Medical Services Department, and Project Management Team contractors coordinated a campaign to clean up two kilometers of desert area at the Khursaniyah oil field. About 100 employees and contractors participated in the event. The goal of the campaign was to provide a clean and healthy local environment. The campaign proved to be an unqualified success, with the awareness program educating operators and contractors on desert litter issues and positive changes that can reduce litter and enhance the quality of the Kingdom’s aquatic environments. About three tons of litter was collected from the two kilometer area.Saudi Aramco signed a shareholder agreement with Lamprell plc (“Lamprell”), the National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia (“Bahri”), and Hyundai Heavy Industries Co. Ltd (“HHI”) to enter into a joint venture (“JV”) partnership with respect to the establishment, development and operation of a world-class maritime yard, which is the anchor project within the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services located in Ras Al-Khair, near the Jubail Industrial City on the Kingdom’s east coast.    This strategic partnership among industry leading companies is positioned to capitalize on the rapidly-growing maritime requirements in the region by offering globally competitive, safe, high quality and on-time solutions to customers. The new JV localizes essential links of Saudi Aramco’s supply chain related to offshore drilling and shipping activities, which will lead to optimized cost, reduced response times and improved agility for Saudi Aramco and its affiliates.   The integrated maritime yard will be the largest in the region in terms of production capacity and scale, providing an unprecedented mix of products and services in the region and enabling Saudi Aramco and its supply chain partners to meet their manufacturing, maintenance, repair and overhaul requirements for offshore oil and gas rigs, offshore support vessels, and commercial vessels, including Very Large Crude Carriers (VLCC). The new facility shall have the capacity to manufacture 4 offshore rigs, over 40 vessels including 3 VLCCs, and service over 260 maritime products annually. Major production operations are expected to commence in 2019 with the facility reaching its full production capacity by 2022. This initiative will also contribute towards localizing expertise related to the maritime industry and job creation in the Kingdom.
The long standing business relationship between Saudi Aramco and China was further consolidated during the visit to Saudi Aramco today of H.E. Li Wei, President of China’s Development Research Center (DRC) of the State Council, and his meeting with Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco. Mr. Nasser and H.E. Li Wei signed a Memorandum of Cooperation on “Promoting the Implementation of Joint Research.” The MoU stipulated that both parties agreed to explore collaboration and research opportunities between the People’s Republic of China and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia related to alignment and progression of China’s Belt & Road Initiative and Saudi Vision 2030. The joint research collaboration areas include Saudi Aramco’s core business interest of increasing its downstream presence in China, including oil refining, oil product marketing and retail, and oil storage.&nbsp; The joint research will also explore the interests of Chinese companies partnering with Saudi Aramco or other Saudi Arabian entities for investment and partnerships. Saudi Aramco CEO Nasser said: “We welcome H.E. Li Wei and his delegation to Saudi Aramco as we continue to explore together various opportunities for mutual benefit and growth. The MoU we signed today will deepen our joint cooperation in the energy sector, particularly in downstream activities.&nbsp; Saudi Aramco stands ready for opportunities to invest and to collaborate, and that would bring our two nations even closer together.” He added: “The recent groundbreaking ceremony for the Saudi Aramco–Norinco Refining, Petrochemical and Retail Project in Panjin, in northeast China’s Liaoning province, further strengthens our strategic cooperation and downstream investment in China and our strong commitment to the Chinese market.” The visit of the DRC delegation to Saudi Aramco comes at the heels of the participation in March 2017 of Saudi Aramco CEO Nasser in the China Development Forum (CDF) 2017 in Beijing as well as the historic state visit to China by the Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques King Salman Bin Abdulaziz. The Development Research Center (DRC) of the State Council is a state agency responsible for policy research, strategic review and consulting of issues related to the economic and social development in the People’s Republic of China. It is an advisory body which recommends policies to CPC Central Committee and the State Council. Saudi Aramco has participated regularly in the DRC’s annual China Development Forum, which is China’s most preeminent platform for dialogue between its senior leadership and representatives from the global leading businesses, international organizations, and scholars from China and abroad.During the Offshore Technology Conference (OTC) week, Aramco conducted a business forum for North American companies to learn about opportunities to partner with Saudi Aramco and invest in the Kingdom. With a theme of “Doing Business in Saudi Arabia,” the event in Houston was the second of its kind held in conjunction with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. The first was conducted last November in Washington, D.C. Since the launch of Saudi Vision 2030 just over a year ago, interest among North American business leaders has grown. The Aramco forum was a good reflection of that, with more than 240 North American company owners, CEOs, investors, and others attending. This was about a 75% increase in attendance over the first forum. Aramco is planning to conduct the event several more times this year in the U.S. and Canada. In his keynote address, Basil Abul-Hamayel, Aramco Services Company (ASC) president and CEO, highlighted the strong alliance between the U.S. and Saudi Arabia that began almost 90 years ago. “We want to continue building strong, successful partnerships,” he said. “And we see an array of opportunities for companies represented here today.” Participants represented more than 140 business organizations in a variety of sectors, including oil and gas, chemicals, information technology, telecommunications, and logistics. Abul-Hamayel talked about Saudi Aramco’s full-scale transformation, the need to support this massive growth with additional materials and services, and areas of opportunity. He also encouraged companies to learn more about expanding their business in Saudi Arabia through such initiatives as the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program. Three breakout sessions were conducted in the afternoon for attendees seeking further details. They focused on 1) IKTVA and its capital projects; 2) the Energy Industrial City — a master-planned industrial and residential “energy hub” located between Dammam and al-Hasa; and 3) Saudi Aramco projects — in particular, opportunities for suppliers in the areas of unconventional resources, drilling (coiled tubing and casing), high-pressure and high-temperature wells, and more. “We are seeing activity increase as the word continues to spread about these partnership opportunities,” said AlRumaih. “We look forward to further working with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to keeping up the momentum and taking this message to other strategic locations in the U.S. and Canada.”Even as Aramco expands further downstream in refining and chemicals, the company’s commitment to its core upstream oil and gas program remains strong. For attendees at the annual Offshore Technology Conference (OTC), the world’s largest oil and gas industry event, this comes at a time when continued long-term investment is needed to meet growing global energy demand. In-booth presentations highlighted how Aramco’s high-impact research and development is paying off. The company is advancing new and novel techniques, and developing its own proprietary technology to maximize the yield of its reserves. For example, “Novel Repair Systems for the Remediation of Sustained Casing Pressure” showed how the company is addressing a major industry challenge of pressure buildup between cement casings in wells, known in the industry as casing-casing annular (CCA) pressure buildup. Researchers at the Aramco Research Center-Houston are working at the fundamental molecular level to develop proprietary resin repair solutions. Another presentation highlighted Aramco’s advancement in sensor technologies. “An untethered sensor, about the size of a golf ball, can be deployed into a well, fall to the desired depth, change its buoyancy, and then return to the surface,” said Erjola Buzi, electrical engineer and a member of the Sensor Development Team at the Houston Research Center. “During this trip, the device logs sensor measurements, and these data are retrieved after the device is recovered, offering a quick way to gather well log data for enhanced reservoir modeling and recovery.” For OTC attendees unfamiliar with Saudi Aramco’s longtime offshore efforts, Aramco Services Company (ASC) Upstream’s Gretchen Gillis, a geological consultant, presented the “History of Exploration Offshore in Saudi Arabia.” Gillis noted that Saudi Aramco discovered one of the world’s largest offshore oil fields and also highlighted the company’s environmental stewardship efforts. The technical program covered topics ranging from new developments in major offshore basins to offshore renewable energy and the digital revolution. Aramco shared its insights with a paper during the Offshore Pipelines Session that examined cyclical ratcheting resistance, which is the slow, incremental, and upward movement of buried pipelines. Another paper with contributions from Aramco examined the “Interaction between Proppant Packing, Reservoir Depletion, and Fluid Flow in Hydraulic Fractures.” ASC supported OTC 2017 with representatives from Upstream, Public Affairs, Staffing Services, and Procurement and Logistics participating. Two members of ASC Upstream serve on the OTC Technical Program Committee. Also, a member of ASC Technical Services served on the Distinguished Achievement Awards committee. Of interest to many service providers and contractors was the associated event “Doing Business in Saudi Arabia: U.S.-Aramco Supplier Forum,” which was hosted by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce in partnership with Aramco. Aramco was a corporate level sponsor of the conference and a sponsor of this year’s Distinguished Achievement Awards Luncheon.Good morning. Congratulations to all the award recipients today for their accomplishments. And I want to extend this recognition to all the employees and contractors who have played a role in helping these organizations in their success here today. The President’s Excellence Award honors high achievement in areas that are absolutely critical to the success of Saudi Aramco: Safety; Environmental Protection; Maintenance and Reliability; and Operational Excellence. While the Maintenance-and-Reliability and Operational Excellence awards are new this year, the Safety and Environmental Protection awards are long-standing, highly competitive traditions in the company, each with its own rich history dating back more than a decade. Today, we bring these awards together under the umbrella of a company-wide pursuit of excellence. Though quite diverse, these awards are all linked to one inseparable outcome: that is to make Saudi Aramco more successful and better than what we are today. What these groups share in common is that for each of them, excellence is more than a set of year-end results. So it’s more than a destination, it’s a journey. Of course, some of the most important journeys begin with a vision. … Six years ago, we put forth a vision for our company … that in the years ahead, Saudi Aramco will become the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals company. And since then, although the oil and gas industry has undergone fundamental transformations, Saudi Aramco is now in the midst of a period of growth and development unmatched in its eighty-four (84) year history. Ladies and gentlemen, like many of you here today, I was trained as an engineer. I find details very important. … So when we talk about “vision,” the details are in the implementation. The question we must ask is: how do we implement such an ambitious vision for the company? In such times – particularly in a low-oil-price environment – what got us where we are today will not get us where we want to be tomorrow. Simply put, the implementation of our vision to become the world leader in energy and chemicals must be nothing short of a tireless, companywide pursuit of excellence.  When we raise the level of our ambitions … in turn, it will raise the level of our achievements. Across the groups we recognize today, their achievements represent countless thousands of hours of dedication to world-class performance. The President’s Award is designed not simply to reward excellence, but to recognize it. By recognizing these achievements, we mean to encourage the sharing of best practices, and a healthy sense of competition across the company. In fact, we are competing with the leading companies in the world. In a recent survey of over 500 global CEOs, they ranked Excellence among their top three challenges in 2017. They understand – as we understand – that the pursuit of organizational excellence is the new “science of success.” So I call upon all of you to be the drivers of innovation and excellence within your organization. Make excellence more than a series of metrics, make it a mindset – a part of your group’s DNA. With Vision 2030, and the upcoming IPO of the company, we have the opportunity to take excellence to a much higher level. By doing so, we will soon realize that not only have we moved our company and in the process Saudi Aramco will have become a global leader in energy and chemicals. It is a journey we are on together … and we are well on the way. Thank you.Saudi Aramco today signed agreements with major U.S. companies which will pave way for the company to enhance its business synergy with the U.S. as well as attracting investments from its U.S. counterparts to the Kingdom. The agreements were signed in Riyadh today in the presence of The Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and U.S. President Donald Trump. President Trump’s visit to Saudi Arabia also includes a business summit attended by Saudi and U.S. chief executives, to further cement the strong historic relations between the Kingdom and the U.S. The agreements were signed by Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser and his U.S. counterpart. “The agreements signed today by Saudi Aramco with major American companies underscore the purposeful collaboration between Saudi Arabia and the United States in areas of strategic importance linking Saudi Vision 2030 and America’s own economic depth and strength,” he said. The agreement which are estimated to be around $50 billion highlights the magnitude of strategic growth and diversification underway at Saudi Aramco, including strengthening the company’s standing as the world’s leading energy and chemicals company and focus on local capacity building of its technical expertise and workforce. Among the agreements signed or updated are: Agreement with Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. (NYSE:JEC) to form a Saudi Arabia-based joint venture company that provides professional program and construction management (PMCM) services for building and infrastructure projects in the Kingdom. The parties also agreed to form a joint venture to provide PMCM services in the Middle East and North Africa. The agreement will create 3000 jobs. An MoU with Saudi Aramco to form a joint venture in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Through its state-of the art manufacturing and fabrication facilities in the Kingdom and NOV’s market-leading drilling technologies, the joint venture will provide high-specification land rigs, rig and drilling equipment and offer certain aftermarket services. Additionally, the companies announced their proposed joint venture will establish an education center to train Saudi technicians in the maintenance and operation of the sophisticated drilling technology that the venture will bring to the Kingdom. It is expected to create 1,000 jobs. An MoU which will examine the feasibility of new business development across the energy value chain including enablers covering the Oil & Gas upstream, midstream and downstream eco-system including manufacturing and services,. It is expected to create 2,000 jobs. Within the oil and gas sector, Saudi Aramco and GE have signed an MoU to undertake a digital transformation of Saudi Aramco’s operations with a goal of generating US $4 billion in annual productivity improvements. To enable the transformation, GE will provide a private Predix Industrial IoT cloud, GE’s pioneering APM and industry-specific applications, and staff a Digital Transformation Office (DTO) with local industrial engineers, process experts, and technologists. The DTO is expected to generate 250 high-tech Saudi jobs and stimulate local economic demand for an additional 500 Digital Industrial careers. To support the growth of a broader Predix economy, GE will work within the Saudi Vision 2030 to develop a STEM educational curriculum for high schools and universities to develop Saudi Digital Industrial talent to meet future demand for developers and data scientists. The collaboration is a strong example of Saudi Aramco’s industry leadership and commitment to Saudi Vision 2030 to develop high-tech and knowledge worker careers that add significant value to the local economy. A non-binding MOU through which the partners to Rex Offshore will develop the designs of the jack-ups rigs which they intend to manufacture through the Ras Al Khair Maritime Yard in Saudi Arabia. This MOU is an extension to the agreement signed in November 2016 to create a 50/50 joint venture to own, operate, and manage offshore drilling rigs in Saudi Arabia. The new joint venture company will use Rowan's established business in Saudi Arabia as its base with a scope of operations covering Saudi Arabia's existing and future offshore oil and gas fields. The new company is anticipated to commence operations in the second quarter of 2017. It is expected to create 1,000 jobs. An MOU to explore improving and optimizing land drilling supply logistics, services deployment, and rig moves for the Onshore Rig Ownership & Operations JV. Benefits include eliminating rig mobilization costs, reducing day rates, enticing foreign direct investment, creating jobs with Saudization levels anticipated to reach 80%. It is expected to create 1,000 jobs. McDermott International, Inc. (NYSE:MDR) announced today it has signed another MOU with Saudi Aramco to expand and develop the company’s physical and human capital within the Kingdom as part of Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program. The MOU demonstrates McDermott’s support of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 and Aramco’s IKTVA program. The Company has committed to a nine-initiative plan to increase its contribution to the country’s localization efforts and aid Saudi Aramco in meeting its 2021 objectives. McDermott plans to increase the number of Saudi nationals in its Middle East workforce and is expected to create 3,000 jobs. MOU advances both companies long-standing cooperation and further supports the development and diversification of Saudi Arabia’s oil and gas sector, and accelerates the benefits of the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) within Saudi Aramco’s operations. The MOU will create over 400 jobs, as well as support suppliers with significant funding. MOU will jointly explore the potential for new engineering capabilities and systems to be developed at several of Saudi Arabia’s world-leading industrial centers, supporting the IKTVA Program’s objectives of increased investment, economic diversification, job creation, and workforce development within the Kingdom. MOU to deliver a series of projects related to localizing oil field goods and services. The MOU will create 2,600 jobs, as well as support suppliers with significant funding. MOU to deliver a series of projects related to localizing oil field goods and services. The MOU will create over 750 jobs, as well as support services with significant worth. MOU to deliver a series of projects related to localizing oil field goods and services. The MOU will create over 900 jobs, as well as support suppliers with significant funding. Collaboration for digital transformation within Saudi Aramco’s operations which covers Plantweb Digital Ecosystem Solutions (IIoT); competency development programs (training of Saudi Aramco employees), digital oil field initiatives; and research and development in advanced applications for process automation.Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser participated today in the Saudi-U.S. CEO Forum, organized as part of the Saudi-U.S. Summit and the historic visit to Saudi Arabia by U.S. President Donald Trump. Held under the patronage of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz, the Saudi-U.S. CEO Forum provides a platform to strengthen business relations between the two countries by enhancing bi-lateral trade, enabling closer economic ties, exploring partnerships and investment opportunities while exchanging best practices and expanding cultural awareness and understanding. Speaking following a forum roundtable organized under the theme “Partnership Enablers”, Nasser highlighted the important role business partnerships play in advancing the economic relationship between Saudi Arabia and the United States. He said trade and investments by American companies in the Kingdom’s strategic sectors facilitate the exchange of best practices, helping enable the environment necessary for successful job creation, business localization, and economic growth and diversification, which are key components of Saudi Vision 2030. Nasser pointed to the several agreements and memoranda of understanding (MoUs) concluded on the sidelines of the summit between Saudi and U.S. companies as evidence of the purposeful collaboration between the two countries and of the long-standing strategic partnership and common interests they share. Citing the historic partnership enjoyed by both nations since the1930s, Nasser said: "Undeniably, energy has always figured prominently in our economic partnership, with Saudi Aramco being a leading provider of the oil processed by major American refiners into the vital energy to power the world's largest economy. Today, I believe the Kingdom has more to offer, where investments, trade and other business activities can become a larger and more vital part of our progressive partnership." He added: “With Saudi Vision 2030, we see numerous opportunities beyond the oil and gas sector as part of the government's plan to strengthen the private sector's contribution to GDP, increase female participation in the workforce, and in the health and education sectors." “The expansion of bilateral investments enhances training and development, drives job creation and facilitates the transfer of technology, laying the foundation for an economic ecosystem that will attract, establish, and promote domestic energy related industries that are globally competitive,” Nasser commented. The Saudi-U.S. CEO Forum provides a platform to strengthen business relations between the two countries by enhancing bi-lateral trade, enabling closer economic ties, exploring partnerships and investment opportunities while exchanging best practices and expanding cultural awareness and understanding. The Forum agenda is structured around economic and commercial topics of mutual interest, including advancing a more closely integrated Saudi-U.S. supply chain, boosting workforce productivity, improving the business environment, and supporting Saudi’s vision of developing a knowledge-based economy. The theme of this year’s forum was “Partnership for Generations” and focused on the mutually beneficial ambition of job creation, global energy security and increased trade. The Forum, which coincides with U.S. President Donald Trump’s historic first visit abroad to the Kingdom, delivered results in line with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. The Forum was attended by key ministers, executives and high-level dignitaries from both Saudi Arabia and the U.S.  Among the notable U.S. companies in attendance were Halliburton, ExxonMobil, General Electric, Dow Chemical, Nabors, Rowan, Cisco, and Boeing.  Saudi Aramco, China North Industries Corporation (NORINCO), and Panjin Xincheng Industrial Group, Co., Ltd. signed the joint development agreement and held a groundbreaking ceremony for the Saudi Aramco - NORINCO Refining, Petrochemical and Retail Project in Panjin, in northeast China’s Liaoning province. The idea for this project received a major boost during the visit by The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman Bin Abdulaziz to China in March 2017, when Saudi Aramco and NORINCO signed the project Memorandum of Understanding (MoU).   HE Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, who was in Beijing to participate in the Belt and Road Forum for International Cooperation, attended the ceremony where Saudi Aramco and NORINCO signed an agreement to pave the way for a Joint Development agreement to build a refining, chemicals, and retail network in Panjin. Later on site in Panjin, Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Senior Vice President Downstream at Saudi Aramco attended a groundbreaking event, which was also attended by Mr. Yin Jiaxu, Chairman of Norinco Group; and Mr. Zhang Lei, Liaoning Executive Deputy Governor; Nabil Al Nuaim, President of Aramco Asia; and Mr. Gao Ke, Panjin Municipal Party Secretary. Representatives from relevant ministries, provincial departments, NORINCO, Saudi Aramco and Huajin Group also attended.The governor of Liaoning province Mr. Chen Qiufa announced the project commencement and the joint development agreement was signed by Mr. Abdulaziz M. Al-Judaimi, Mr. Zhao Gang, and Mr. Hao Chunrong. The project is a key element in China’s petrochemical industry forward planning and the revitalization drive for the old industrial base in northeast China. It is a major project in NORINCO’s drive to develop the industrial value chain, facilitating overseas oil exploration and trade, as well as growth in the petrochemical, final chemicals and specialty chemical sectors. Having completed the environmental impact assessment and won 23 project supporting documents in less than three years, the project obtained final approval from Liaoning Provincial Development and Reform Commission. The goal of the project is to build a world-class refining and chemical integration base, with global best practice standards of cost-saving, sustainability, and advanced technology. The construction will be based on the principles of integration, clustering development, differentiation and scale up. The project will further promote the implementation of China’s “Belt & Road” initiative and the safe, efficient, and sustainable development of petrochemical industry in China in partnership with the globally recognized enterprise working in this field. The project will significantly expand Saudi Aramco’s footprint in China’s downstream industry considering the paramount importance of the Chinese economy for Saudi and Saudi Aramco’s future investments. It will also enhance the competitiveness of NORINCO’s petrochemical and value-added chemical divisions, and promote the overall economic revitalization in Liaoning and Panjin. This project will potentially become a key building block in both companies’ portfolios and a new landmark in the industry since it has all ingredients for integration, optimization, capital efficiency and located in a very promising region. Both partners will bring their best practices in project management and execution and operations to add value to this project.Nearly 40 Korean companies and 100 participants recently attended the “Downstream Manufacturing Opportunities in Saudi Arabia” forum in Seoul, South Korea, as a way to promote investment opportunities in Saudi Arabia. Organized by Aramco Asia-Korea (AAK) in collaboration with Sadara Chemical Company, the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu’ (RCJY), and the Saudi Arabian Industrial Investments Company, the forum was designed to brief Korean industry players on the rapidly changing business environment in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and ways to capture business opportunities in the region. Korean petrochemical companies, small- and medium-sized enterprises related to Sadara downstream and conversion industries, venture companies, and government associates were among the attendees. Saudi Arabia, the 20th largest economy in the world, witnessed 3.4% growth in its gross domestic product rate last year. With an expanding demand for petrochemical derivatives, its chemical industry is shifting from historical portfolio of commodity products to performance polymers and specialty chemicals. After the forum, AAK arranged individual meetings for Sadara and RCJY and six Korean companies that have shown initial interest to review potential investment opportunities within Sadara downstream and conversion industries. Individual one-on-one meetings covered in-depth discussions of potential investment cases by exchanging the initial idea of potential investment plan and the detailed information on the Sadara value chain and infrastructure of RCJY.Roads of Arabia: Archeological Treasures of Saudi Arabia’ exhibition, a joint initiative of Saudi Aramco’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage (SCTH), was inaugurated yesterday at the National Museum of Korea in Seoul. The exhibition was inaugurated by HRH Prince Sultan bin Salman Al Saud, President of the SCTH, H.E. Khalid A. Al Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Chairman of Saudi Aramco, and H.E. Yoo Il-ho, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Strategy and Finance, H.E. Song Soo-keun, Acting Minister and First Vice Minister of Culture, Sports and Tourism, Korea, and was attended by several diplomats, business people and cultural dignitaries. Before South Korea, the exhibition was on display for three months in Beijing, China where it attracted over 170,000 visitors at the famous halls of the National Museum of China. In Korea, ‘Roads of Arabia’ is expected to be on display for approximately four months. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Al Falih said: “With ‘Roads of Arabia,’ we bring to Korea a sort of cultural map, artifacts that are priceless not only because of their historic and artistic value, but because they tell the story of the people of the Arabian Peninsula. Across the globe, roads have connected people, ideas, art and culture. In fact, our two nations represent two peninsulas and two peoples, connecting the East and the West.” Al Falih added: “As part of Vision 2030, Saudi Aramco is strengthening its focus of building bridges of trade, commerce and partnerships with the Republic of Korea. And through Roads of Arabia, we are also helping pave new roads of culture and people-to-people contacts — all of which are essential for true prosperity.” Featuring important archaeological relics illustrating the depth of the Arab civilization and its history of more than one million years, the exhibition features more than 466 archaeological pieces selected from the National Museum in Riyadh, the King Saud University Museum, and other museums. The artifacts cover the prehistoric and pre-Islamic periods, the early, middle, and late Arabian kingdoms and civilizations, and the Islamic period until the establishment of the Kingdom throughout its three stages until the reign of King Abdulaziz, some of which are displayed for the first time. The exhibition was displayed in Saudi Arabia in December 2016 as part of the inauguration of the Dhahran-based King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, when the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz launched the Asian tour of the Archaeological Masterpieces of Saudi Arabia Exhibition.Saudi Aramco Products Trading Co., the trading arm of Saudi Aramco’s downstream operations, marked a new chapter in the company’s history with the launch of its website (www.aramcotrading.com) on April 27. “This is a great moment for Aramco Trading,” said Hanan M. Olayan from the Aramco Trading operations team. “This will open the door for future opportunities for our company through a platform that tells the Aramco Trading story.” The company’s story began in 2010, when the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors established it as a subsidiary. By January 2012, the company began trading refined, liquid chemical, and polymer products. The affiliate hit the ground running, managing a daily average of 680,000 barrels of products within the first months of operations internationally, then adding gasoline storage and blending to their list of services by 2013. It now trades about 1.5 million barrels of refined, liquid chemical, and polymer products every day across the globe — including Europe, the Americas, Africa, Asia, and the Middle East. The company utilizes a fleet of more than 40 vessels, that embark on more than 1,190 voyages per year. The company now offers its international such clientele services as gasoline storage and blending, fuel oil storage and blending, shipping, and financial services in the form of hedging. Expanding at a steady rate of 22% per year — the company continues to grow.  “I want to thank every member of the Aramco Trading family for their contribution to the company’s success over the past five years,” Ibrahim Al-Buainain, Saudi Aramco Products Trading Co. CEO, said in his message on the website. The company is composed of a diverse workforce, with more than 15 nationalities represented and women comprising 17% of its employees. “Aramco Trading’s most important asset is its people. Without this group, we would not be where we are today,” said Al-Buainain. Saudi Aramco President and Chief Executive Officer Amin H. Nasser said today as the global oil market rebalances, the industry needs to avoid letting short term factors overshadow the need for long term investments. Oil will play a key role in meeting future global energy demand despite scenarios of peak demand and stranded resources, which are misplaced, Nasser explained at the 18th International Oil Summit. With the anticipated growth of the world’s population by an additional 2 billion people by 2050, overall demand for energy is expected to be substantially higher than it is today. He stressed that this higher demand will be met through all energy sources and despite the progress being made, renewables still face multiple challenges of which both the industry and consumers alike should anticipate a long and complex energy transition.   Nasser highlighted five key challenges which deserve the most urgent attention in building broader resilience.  First is that all energy sources will be required to meet higher demand for energy, especially oil and gas, because an estimated 30 million barrels per day of oil production capacity needs to be developed over the next five years due to global oil demand growth, natural decline of legacy production and recent sharp cuts in investment.     However, Nasser cautioned that short-termism and volatility, combined with premature expectations of a rapid energy transition, is fueling uncertainty and misleading markets and investors. While the short-term market points to a surplus, the supplies required for the years ahead are falling behind substantially because the vast, long-term investments in proven and reliable energy sources are not being made.     “This presents a grave and growing threat to world energy security,” he said.  The second and third challenges are cost, and relentlessly questioning the basic building blocks of how the industry conducted its business, respectively. Nasser said with price levels half of what they were before the downturn, the legacy cost structures are no longer sustainable, particularly as costs are starting to rise with increased activity.  The fourth challenge is also gaining significant importance – climate change. Nasser said Saudi Aramco is playing a key role in supporting the Kingdom’s contributions following the historic signing of the Paris Agreement which Saudi Arabia ratified last year.     He cited one example of major oil and gas companies coming together is through the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), which is making $1 billion investment in developing innovative low emissions technologies over the next decade.   The fifth and final challenge, according to Nasser, is making real technological breakthroughs to deliver clean, sustainable energy over the long-term that includes technology which will minimize the greenhouse gas of oil and gas while the energy unfolds.     He concluded his address with a call to action – for the industry to be far more resilient: “If we can meet these challenges head-on, the stage is set for oil to remain a crucial part of the global energy mix for a long time to come,” he said. Thank you, Your Excellency Nordine Ait-Laoussine for that kind introduction. Ladies and Gentlemen, good morning, and bonjour tout le monde I am grateful to the organizers – particularly our friends at IFPEN – for inviting me to join this premier gathering of the oil industry. And it is a pleasure to be sharing this session with my good friend Patrick. I think Saudi Aramco and Total’s special relationship is NOC-IOC cooperation in action, and something we can explore during the Q&A. The last time I spoke at this event was in 2004. Back then, people were talking about the end of the petroleum industry, driven by the concept of ‘Peak Oil Supply’. 13 years later we face supply abundance! Instead, today we hear about ‘Stranded Resources’, and ‘Peak Oil’ now refers to demand. I believe these concepts are equally misleading, and I want to focus instead on the real challenges we face. Before I do, let me say a few words about the oil market. The current oil market sentiment and volatility is shaped by a wide range of short-term factors. Weekly changes in U.S. rig counts and production levels; bumps in inventories; the financial markets; the futures market; the shapes of forward curves; and a range of daily analysis and opinion all contribute significantly to price formation. But they also obscure the fundamentals, including crucial longer-term factors, and I will return to this later. The good news is that the market is moving toward rebalancing. For example, we now see occasional inventory bouncing instead of the consistent upward trend witnessed previously. There has also been a rapid drawdown of floating storage during the first quarter of this year. This returning confidence is being driven by improving fundamentals, and accelerated by the production agreement reached last year. As a result, I expect the market to continue improving. Looking further ahead, the signs are even more encouraging. The global economy is forecast to double in size by 2050, while roughly two billion additional people will need access to affordable energy. So overall demand for energy will be substantially higher than today. And this higher demand will only be met by using all energy sources. Because despite the progress being made, alternatives still face multiple challenges, and we should all anticipate a long and complex energy transition. The conclusion is clear: oil demand will continue to grow… in absolute terms… at fairly healthy levels… for the foreseeable future. It is why I believe ‘Peak Oil Demand’ is not in sight for at least the next few decades, and why the notion of ‘Stranded Resources’ is not one I recognize. The problem is, these assertions conceal the real challenges we face. Let me pull back the curtain a little today… To begin with, perhaps the key lesson from our industry’s entire history is that bumps in the road are inevitable. Building broader resilience is therefore essential, and I believe five areas deserve the most urgent attention. As I just mentioned, all energy sources will be required to meet the increasing global demand for energy, especially oil and gas. In fact, an estimated 30 million barrels per day of oil production capacity needs to be developed over just the next five years. But short-termism and volatility, combined with premature expectations of a rapid energy transition, is fueling uncertainty and misleading markets and investors. And incremental, short-term, and lower capital investment projects are just not going to cut it. So while the short-term market points to an oil surplus, the supplies required for the years ahead are falling behind substantially because the vast, long-term investments in proven and reliable energy sources are not being made. This presents a grave and growing threat to world energy security. With price levels half of what they were before the downturn, the legacy cost structures are no longer sustainable, particularly as costs are starting to rise with increased activity. So all of us must work toward transformational cost efficiency that makes our businesses more profitable even in weak market conditions. At a recent Upstream conference, we called it E&P 2.0, as the status quo is unsustainable. But it covers everything – from business models and competiveness to continued revenue growth that generates adequate returns for shareholders, without compromising on safety or the environment. Following the historic signing of the Paris Agreement – which Saudi Arabia ratified last year – Saudi Aramco is playing a key role in supporting the Kingdom’s contributions. For example, doubling our gas production will increase the share of clean gas in the Kingdom’s utilities to almost 70%, which will be the highest of any G20 nation. We will also help to transform the Kingdom into a global solar powerhouse, which has an initial target of almost 10 GW by 2023. And industry peers like Saudi Aramco and Total are coming together in the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, or OGCI, backed by a 1 billion dollar investment in developing innovative low emissions technologies. That includes technology that will minimize the greenhouse gas of oil and gas while the energy transition unfolds. In fact, Saudi Aramco’s 11 global research and technology centers and offices – including one here in Paris with IFPEN – powerfully demonstrate our belief in that long-term mission. In partnership with European automakers, we are developing and demonstrating highly-efficient engine technologies like Gasoline Compression Ignition to reduce the transport sector’s greenhouse gas intensity. Ladies and Gentlemen, when we look beyond short-term factors and misplaced notions, I see the oil market pointing upward and expect it to continue improving. That does not mean everything is rosy. We need to be far more resilient, which means fundamentally transforming the way we conduct our business while reducing the greenhouse gas footprint of oil. But if we can meet these challenges head-on, the stage is set for oil to remain a crucial part of the global energy mix for a long time to come. And I hope that positive message will ring loud and clear in investors’ ears, as our industry rises to the challenge once more. Thank you, and merci.  Investing in state-of-the-art geographical information systems (GIS) to capture, store, check, and display deep layers of highly detailed geographical data will be critical to advancing the ambitions of Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom, the 11th GIS Symposium in Saudi Arabia heard recently.   The annual conference, drawing experts from government bodies, geospatial scientists, and representatives of academic and research institutions, provided a unique opportunity for knowledge sharing and collaboration in a field that is a critical function for Saudi Aramco, said keynote speaker Fahad E. Al-Helal, vice president of Project Management.   Under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud Bin Naif, Governor of Eastern Province, the Imam Abdulrahman Bin Faisal University in Dammam hosted the symposium, which featured a state-of-the-art exhibit, keynote speeches, and a range of technical sessions.    For Saudi Aramco, Al-Helal said, GIS is a critical part in enhancing the company’s ability to maximize efficiencies, improve safety, and safeguard operations onshore and offshore, alike. He revealed that Saudi Aramco deploys a wide array of technologies to extract value-adding geospatial data.   “Saudi Aramco’s commitment comes in the form of implementing new technologies, new efficiencies, and our continuous aspiration to expand the value of geospatial information for the benefit of more users, and ultimately, the Kingdom.   “GIS is one of the most important fronts. Saudi Aramco’s network of domestic operations in terms of exploration, producing, refining, petrochemicals, and distribution is spread across the Kingdom,” Al-Helal said.   Saudi Aramco has an infrastructure and facilities that span over 250,000km2 across the Kingdom, including the company’s reservations and pipeline networks.   “When managing projects of this magnitude across the Kingdom,” Al-Helal added, “geographical services and specifically GIS needs to be continuously invested in for Saudi Aramco’s ever-expanding operations. We not only conduct and manage geospatial information, but also provide value-added solutions for users.”   The deployment of the most up-to-date systems of GIS has contributed to the company’s exploration, production, safety, and project-management activities.   “GIS and geospatial data are really important in our field, whether collecting geospatial data, by land, air, satellite, or at sea. We understand that this data needs to be gathered accurately and efficiently. At Saudi Aramco, we have dedicated, experienced, and skilled teams to handle the collection and processes of our geospatial data,” Al-Helal noted.   Geographic services in Saudi Aramco include the responsibility for companywide onshore and offshore geospatial data the positioning, processing, and dissemination of data in a timely and cost-effective manner. Also, Saudi Aramco is committed to supporting the company’s business interests by using GIS applications for monitoring and assessing land encroachment, land preservation, land records, and other potential issues.   “Our data capture and processing through utilized geomatics operations uses the latest in global satellite navigation technology, scanning, and optical equipment. This is to provide precise and accurate geospatial information for our projects — for planning purposes, for engineering design, construction, exploration, facility maintenance, and management of Saudi Aramco’s land,” Al-Helal said.   Saudi Aramco deploys an array of technologies — both onshore and offshore — to get the best layered picture of the geography of the Kingdom.   From the air, a fleet of aircraft uses digital aerial cameras to collect photography. These aerial photographs are used to populate the Saudi Aramco data map, which is the foundation of the Saudi Aramco GIS.    Offshore technologies include underwater survey equipment, cutting-edge navigation equipment, environmental technologies and autonomous underwater vehicles. These methods combine to create a deep layered map.   GIS technologies also contribute significantly to safety across the company and are used in traffic safety initiatives, desert search-and-rescue and offshore and onshore emergency preparedness. The real-time monitoring of pipelines is also made possible by GIS.   “We are committed to our national GIS and geomatics. With the right collaboration, we can advance further our national GIS infrastructure,” Al-Helal said.   Saudi Aramco’s Tareq Al Qahtani, Dawood Al Najjad, Krzysztof Baczynski, Abdulmajeed Anezi and Jameel Khalaf of the Geomatics Services Division gave a presentation on the first day of the symposium titled “Geospatial Technology in support of Saudi Aramco’s Construction Projects.”  A program offered by Saudi Aramco that promotes knowledge and entices female students to pursue career paths in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM) is earning rave reviews from participants.   “My daughter had a life-changing experience by attending Saudi Aramco’s recent STEMania Program,” said the mother of a first-grade student from the last cohort of the 300 girls who recently graduated from the Saudi Aramco STEMania Program. “As a mother, it was so overwhelming to see how this program went far beyond introducing my 7-year-old daughter to basic science concepts. It actually also played a major role in shaping her personality by emphasizing teamwork, problem solving, and time management skills, which resulted in her speaking in public for the first time in her life to a crowd of about 450 attendees at the recent STEMania graduation event.”   STEM programs worldwide promote knowledge and entice students to pursue career paths in the four fields. The STEMania Program is Saudi Aramco’s version of STEM that targets young females in an all-female environment. The program is sponsored by the Women Development and Diversity Division (WD&DD) in collaboration with the Ministry of Education.   STEMania looks to spur excitement and knowledge for STEM fields; support the needs for Saudi Vision 2030 by promoting a pipeline of young women in the workforce; and foster growth for possible future women employees in Saudi Aramco and other organizations. An after-school program for elementary- and intermediate-level girls in public and private schools, it features two sessions over a six-week period. It achieves its mission of increasing the number of women entering STEM fields by training teachers, engaging students through hands-on experiments, and connecting them with female role models known as “STEM Friends” working in STEM fields. Saudi Aramco has 50 STEM Friends who are modeling the way for future generations.   Since the program’s inception in 2015, WD&DD has successfully impacted the lives of more than 900 young female students by igniting their interest to pursue STEM disciplines. STEMania was piloted in 2015 with 300 girls from the intermediate level in six public schools in Dammam, al-Khobar and Saihat. Since then, it has broadened its reach to impact an additional 600 young females and includes elementary students as young as first grade from public and private schools. It has added two schools by expanding its reach to Jubail.    At the second STEMania graduation ceremony at a school in al-Khobar, 300 young girls showcased what they learned by demonstrating their best projects. Mothers cheered for their daughters, as did school and Ministry of Education officials, friends, and STEM Friends. Mothers and teachers shared stories of how the program had transformed shy girls into STEM explorers who now ask questions and wonder why things work the way they do.    STEMania’s benefits exceeded the students’ influence and reached the supervisors and teachers, as well. Ghaidaa Al-Shehri, a supervisor who taught basic programming concepts to students in grades 4 through 6, said: “This program had an effect on me personally as a supervisor and enhanced my ability to deal with different segments of the society. It enriched my experience in delivering information to students of different age groups, and made me more appreciative of the amount of effort exerted by teachers to deliver information to students.”   The graduation ended with WD&DD and the Ministry of Education recognizing the far-reaching efforts the many people who played a significant role in ensuring the program was a success.   A third-grade student expressed her gratitude to Rahmah I. Al-Nawwab, an outreach supervisor in WD&DD, by saying: “I wish the program ran every day of the week instead of only twice a week because I enjoyed it so much. I want to become an engineer one day, similar to the one who visited us during the program!”  Developing and managing reservoirs is a complex and challenging process. A new tool, named Reservoir Engineering Integrated Environment (REOnline), helps engineers to better plan, develop and manage the company’s fields and reservoirs. “Saudi Aramco has always been at the forefront of development and deployment of state-of-the-art technologies,” said Sami A. Al-Neaim, manager of the company’s Petroleum Engineering Application Services Department (PEASD), at the official launch of REOnline. The single platform, developed over a period of two years, provides smart analytics and advanced tracking capabilities to identify business improvement opportunities, maximize recovery, and ultimately reduce the overall development costs of wells and reservoirs. Al-Neaim encouraged attendees to capitalize on this new platform to gain more efficiency and better manage Saudi Aramco wells, reservoirs, and fields. He considers REOnline to be a potential paradigm shift in the way our customers will do their business,” he said. “We truly hope they embrace this new platform and become a part of its continuous evolution and improvement.” REOnline capitalizes on the power of integration to help optimize the portfolio of applications by eliminating redundancy and fragmented data and solutions. Moreover, one of the strongest features of REOnline is in its analytical pillar. REOnline leverages advanced analytical capabilities that help engineers digest more data and gain further insight to make the best business decisions. Some of these technologies include visualization, predictive analytics, big data, and data mining. At the launch event a live demonstration was conducted to highlight how REOnline can create and customize individual profiles and dashboards, perform advanced searches for wells with certain behaviors (such as high water-cut or gas oil ratio), perform analysis on GIS maps (such animated bubble maps, interactive IPR calculation, and plotting isobaric reservoir pressure maps), create alerts by capitalizing on smart agents, and track delivery of any well while identifying bottlenecks at any well delivery stage. Aramco plans to extend the capabilities of REOnline further to integrate additional reservoir engineering processes and expand on the visualization and business intelligence capabilities. This is in addition to providing more advanced analytical solutions, such as water breakthrough detection, injection efficiency, decline curve analysis, and stimulation candidate identification.Speaking at a panel discussion during Saudi Arabia’s Renewable Energy Investment Forum 2017, Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, Saudi Aramco’s Acting Senior Vice President - Downstream, highlighted the importance of the company’s role in diversifying the Kingdom’s energy sources.  Al-Judaimi said: “Saudi Aramco’s participation in the forum stems from its crucial role in diversifying the Kingdom’s energy mix through various projects and initiatives that aim at promoting the use and adoption of renewable energy to reduce emissions and to achieve a better environmental performance, while meeting the Kingdom’s future energy demand.” Saudi Aramco has already delivered on its renewable energy initiatives and demonstrated the integration of solar PV (photovoltaic), and solar CPV (concentrating photovoltaic) at its current facilities with several pilot projects, including one of the world’s largest solar carport systems.Representatives from Saudi Aramco, ExxonMobil, Sinopec, and the Fujian provincial government recently marked the 10th anniversary of establishing the Chinese joint venture Fujian Refining & Petrochemical Company (FREP) in Quanzhou, southeast China’s Fujian province. FREP, originally established to support the growing demands for refined fuels and petrochemical products in the Chinese market, is now a key element in Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy. It produces 7.8 million tons per year of refined products and 3.5 tons per year of chemical products, including polyethylene (PE), polypropylene (PP), benzene, paraxylene, ethylene oxide, and ethylene glycol. FREP is recognized as a role model for successful international refining and chemical collaboration that has brought significant benefits to shareholders and customers alike. “Representing China, Saudi Arabia, and the United States, we partners brought to the table vastly different experiences, skills, management styles and cultures — as we took the pioneering step of forming China’s first fully integrated refining, petrochemicals, and fuels marketing venture with foreign participation,” Said A. Al Hadrami, vice president of Saudi Aramco International Operations, said at the forum.Saudi Aramco’s President and CEO, Amin Nasser, said the company’s long-term strategy of continued investment in core oil and gas projects, downstream and chemicals is necessary to help meet future energy demand and enable the successful transition of the global economy as the market rebalances itself. Saudi Aramco’s President and CEO, Amin Nasser, said the company’s long-term strategy of continued investment in core oil and gas projects, downstream and chemicals is necessary to help meet future energy demand and enable the successful transition of the global economy as the market rebalances itself. Speaking at the 2017 Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs (SIPA) Global Energy Summit, Nasser highlighted the importance of continued investment in the oil and gas industry, while cautioning against taking a short-term view of the energy market. “While the short-term market points to a surplus of oil, the supplies required in the coming years are falling behind substantially and the investments we now see coming back are not going to be enough to get us there” Nasser commented. Nasser said it would be imprudent to assume that major oil producers will simply make the massive investments needed to bridge all these gaps—particularly since most long-term projects continue to be on hold, even after the recent price recovery. He said that the impending shortfall has a time lag, and its effect will be felt over a period of time whose duration is difficult to estimate. “So in my view, the future market situation will be increasingly on firmer grounds, though volatility could continue until the rebalancing takes firmer hold and inventory withdrawals assume a more consistent trend,” he added. Consistent with the company’s long-term view of energy investment and in line with Saudi Vision 2030 Nasser said, “We are continuing to invest and strengthen our core oil and gas business across the value chain.” Nasser said this strategy includes doubling gas production over the next ten years to 23 billion standard cubic feet a day, which would position the Kingdom as having the highest share of gas in utilities in the G-20 group of industrialized nations; enhancing the company’s downstream business portfolio, which would increase global refining and marketing capacity to approximately 8-10 million bpd. He also discussed the company’s accelerated journey in expanding its downstream with a wide range of joint ventures, acquisitions and asset re-rationalization involving a combination of major players and technology specialists such as Petronas, Motiva, Lanxess and Converge (a technology of Novomer). “Downstream, we are continuing to build a world-class business portfolio to better balance our upstream oil business. Accordingly, Saudi Aramco’s global refining and marketing capacity will be increased to between 8 and 10 million barrels per day. The Saudi Aramco CEO was part of a distinguished group of senior energy and climate sector leaders at Columbia’s SIPA Global Energy Summit, which focused on key issues and questions at the intersection of energy policy, financial markets, the environment and geopolitics.To engage and inspire Saudi Aramco’s young employees, the Young Leaders Advisory Board (YLAB) recently provided young professionals an opportunity to interact with the global chairman and CEO of EY, Mark Weinberger, during his recent visit to Saudi Aramco. Weinberger comes from an impressive career in auditing, tax policy, government policy, and economic growth — serving as a member of the International Business Council and as a global agenda trustee for economic growth and social inclusion at the World Economic Forum (WEF). He co-chairs the Russia Foreign Investment Advisory Council (FIAC) with Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and is a member of president Donald Trump’s Strategic Policy Forum, providing input on government policy and its effects on economic growth, job creation, and productivity. During his visit, Weinberger also met with president and CEO Amin Nasser while also visiting a number of company facilities, including Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling, and Shaybah. As part of his visit, Weinberger visited the drilling simulator at the Upstream Development Center. The simulator allows users to practice and develop drilling operations.Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) today signed two separate Memorandums of Understanding with Abu Dhabi National Oil Company (ADNOC) and with Masdar, Abu Dhabi’s renewable energy company, covering energy and technology collaboration, renewables, and carbon management. Under the terms of the MoU between Saudi Aramco and ADNOC, the two companies will collaborate on identifying technologies that could deliver improved operational performance and efficiency across the oil and gas value chain. The MoU was signed by H.E. Dr Sultan Ahmed Al Jaber, UAE Minister of State and ADNOC Group CEO and Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco. H.E. Dr Al Jaber said: “We share many strategic objectives and increased cooperation between ADNOC and Saudi Aramco will further ensure our long term economic and energy resilience. “This agreement reinforces our renewed approach to partnerships, which are aimed at leveraging and building on existing industry expertise. Innovation and technology are critical to our growth strategy, and there is a strong focus on integrating new technologies into our upstream and downstream operations, as we work to harness maximum value,” H.E. Dr Al Jaber added. Amin H. Nasser said: “Saudi Aramco and ADNOC have a long history of enabling growth, development and innovation. Saudi Aramco's MOU with ADNOC will further strengthen and advance our joint goals for research and development in sustainable energy supply, development and management.” He added: "Collaboration is crucial for success in achieving breakthroughs in our industry and we welcome ADNOC to be part of our network of collaborative relationships with leading energy companies and institutions." Saudi Aramco also signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with Masdar, Abu Dhabi Future Energy Company. Under the terms of the agreement, Masdar and Saudi Aramco will collaborate on sustainable development and renewable energy, in order to yield advancements in clean electricity generation, and carbon capture for Saudi Arabia, the UAE and the world. The MoU was signed by Yasser Mufti, Executive Director for New Business Development at Saudi Aramco and Mohamed Jameel Al Ramahi, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Masdar. Yasser Mufti, Executive Director for New Business Development at Saudi Aramco said: “Saudi Aramco welcomes the MoU with Masdar. We are embarking on an ambitious program in sustainable energy, including renewables and CO2 capturing and are also supporting the research and development efforts of various organizations and institutes in the Kingdom to promote renewables use in power generation and water desalination.” This MoU, he added, “will facilitate cooperation in research and development, education and awareness, on the basis of each company’s experience in the development and deployment of sustainability programs.” “This important agreement reflects the shared commitment of Masdar and Saudi Aramco to industry collaboration, which is essential in order to ensure that sustainable energy-based projects benefit from the best available technology, knowledge and skills,” said Mohamed Al Ramahi, CEO of Masdar. “Working with Saudi Aramco will provide substantial insight into their unparalleled experience of deploying large-scale energy projects, while at the same time we are honored to be able to share our own significant expertise as a first-mover in large scale commercial renewable energy development in the Middle East and international markets. The growth potential for renewables in Saudi Arabia is vast, and through our partnership we look forward to supporting the delivery of affordable and sustainable energy in the kingdom.” GOIC delegation pays visit to Saudi Aramco for talks on how to support industrial development in the Kingdom, tackling issues of localization of industrial products and services, with an emphasis in the field of energy projects The objective of the cooperation between GOIC and Saudi Aramco is to attract investors, encourage the private sector, and provide trained and qualified local talent capable of increasing Saudi Arabia’s local content capacity to meet the energy company’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) target of 70% localization of total goods and services investment by 2021. The GOIC delegation was headed by Abdulaziz Bin Hamad Al-Ageel, Secretary General of the Gulf Organization for Industrial Consulting (GOIC). He was received by Ahmad A. Al Sa’adi, senior vice president of Technical Services, as well as managers from Industrial Development, Strategic Supply, and Project Management at the company. Al Sa’adi stressed the importance of cooperation between Saudi Aramco and national and regional organizations in support of industrial development to guarantee a conducive business environment. “Saudi Aramco seeks to create several additional training centers to cover all industrial needs by 2030 that will be capable of promoting human resources development in the Kingdom and throughout the Gulf,” said Al Sa’adi. Al-Ageel noted that GOIC is highly interested in cooperating with Saudi Aramco in several fields, particularly under IKTVA — a program initiated by Saudi Aramco to stimulate the growth of industries and drive Saudi Vision 2030. Al-Ageel added that IKTVA’s success in supporting service providers’ programs and plans to develop, train, and increase the number of national cadres will strongly motivate many major industrial companies in the region to launch similar programs. He concluded that GOIC would seek to form a Gulf network to exchange expertise and programs between Gulf companies that are interested in increasing added value by further localizing industries and boosting local content. Saudi Aramco today welcomed the introduction of the new tax regime for all hydrocarbon producers operating in the Kingdom as another positive step in the diversification of the Kingdom’s economy.   Commenting on the Royal Order, Amin H. Nasser, President & CEO, Saudi Aramco, said: “We thank the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud for the Royal Order announcing the reduction of Saudi Aramco's tax rate to 50 percent from 85 percent. The new tax rate will bring Saudi Aramco in line with international benchmarks.”   Nasser reiterated that Saudi Aramco would continue to make a critical contribution to the diversification and growth of the Saudi economy in line with Saudi Vision 2030.  Saudi Aramco signed a cooperative Memorandum of Understanding with the Eastern Province Council for Social Responsibility (EPCSR) to create a deep-rooted corporate social responsibility culture in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia.   The MoU was signed by Her Highness Princess Abeer Bint Faisal ibn Turki, Chairwoman of EPCSR Board of Trustees and Nasser Al Nafisee, Vice President of Corporate Affairs, Saudi Aramco.   HH Princess Abeer Bint Faisal ibn Turki said, "The signing of this Memorandum of Understanding with Saudi Aramco is a significant step towards building strategic partnerships for the benefit of the people and the community." HRH Princess Abeer expressed her interest to further develop synergies with Saudi Aramco through a strategic cooperative framework that translates corporate social responsibility into a concept that is aligned with the real needs of the Kingdom and its people.   Her Highness added that Saudi Aramco's vast experience with CSR programs will be an important element and a strategic fit with EPCSR in achieving the objectives of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. She also referred to the directives of HRH Prince Saud ibn Nayef ibn Abdulaziz, Governor of the Eastern Province and Honorary President of EPCSR, that EPCSR shall maintain institutional performance that preserves the rights of both people and institutions.   Nasser Al-Nafisee expressed his steadfast optimism about this positive step, noting that Saudi Aramco is continuously building and maintaining robust relations with the community thorough initiatives Kingdom-wide. Al-Nafisee confirmed that Saudi Aramco carries out voluntary and social activities to promote the community’s wellbeing and raise the people's standard of living, in alignment with Vision 2030. The Company’s role as a corporate citizen is based on three pillars, namely economy, knowledge and environment, which all are public areas that positively impact the Saudi society, Al-Nafisee said.   EPCSR and Saudi Aramco’s partnership started in January of this year to strengthen the concept of CSR in our community. This MoU aims to create a community database to be used as a reference that serves the Company, EPCSR and all stakeholders of corporate social responsibility in the Province. Using virtual reality to train and prepare young workforce. Saudi Aramco’s Southern Area Oil Operations (SAOO) management gathered in Abqaiq recently to inaugurate a new 3-D Operator System Training Center with a new generation of oil and gas operators with a unique form of training that provides real-world incident training in a safe and engaging environment. The system utilizes the latest Oculus Rift Virtual Reality (VR( headsets and standard computer game controls, giving outside operators an opportunity to virtually “walk” through a generic gas-oil separation plant, a gas and condensate processing plant and a water injection plant. In a typical training scenario, operators encounter a number of process disruptions — ranging from a simple instrument malfunction to a serious loss of containment incident — to which they must respond and resolve. During the inauguration — attended by SAOO vice president Khaled A. Al Buraik, Southern Area Producing general manager Yousef A. Al Furaidan, and other SAOO managers — training center team members gave management a brief introduction to the project, a demonstration of the system, and a chance for managers to try the VR technology for themselves. “This new center is exactly what we need to engage the younger generation of operators,” said Al Buraik. “They’ll be able to work through this training and see what is happening inside the equipment, and understand what can happen and how to respond.” Virtual-reality tools and high-definition, 3-D computer graphics provide a powerful solution to a major companywide challenge — how to transfer knowledge from an experienced older generation of employees nearing retirement to a younger generation of operators, technicians, and engineers who are rapidly taking over major operational responsibilities in Saudi Aramco’s plants and facilities. Traditional simulators were used for training operators but with VR also outside and control room operators, maintenance people and engineers can be trained. VR allows outside operators to work with control room operators on the same scenario, and it helps to build teamwork. In addition, VR allows operators to see what is happening inside a vessel. You can visualize what is going on during a process, which helps operators to understand how the machinery works and how they should respond.” Matthew Hope, a training supervisor with SAOO Manpower Development, and project leader on the center, said the training center can offer 33 different scenarios with up to six different malfunctions available in each scenario for operators to encounter. The training program tracks the performance of operators and identifies certain skills that need to be enhanced or strengthened. “This system allows us to bring the employees in and train them, and they can do it 1,000 times if necessary,” Hope said. “We simulate events and watch how these employees respond to them, and then we can look at their scores to see areas that need improvement. And best of all, we can do all of this in the safety of this room, even before they enter a plant.”Action in-line to drive domestic value creation through its IKTVA program. Saudi Aramco launched today a contractors and suppliers relations center in the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Riyadh to facilitate the registration process and help contractors reach the company. The center is part of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to expand reach and communication with contractors and material suppliers, and to drive domestic value creation through its In-Kingdom Value Add (IKTVA) program that aims at increasing local content in products and services, localizing innovation and technology, and creating job opportunities for Saudis. The company encourages various organizations in the Kingdom to adopt similar programs across the country. Abdulaziz Al-AbdulKarim, Saudi Aramco Vice President for Procurement & Supply Chain Management said, “We are delighted by the opening of the center in the Riyadh chamber. It will further enhance registration efficiency and communication with our valued partners. We strive to offer local contractors a wide array of opportunities to work with us, and we expect them to invest in increasing local content in their products and services. The company gives priority to local content, and through its IKTVA program it encourages contractors and material suppliers to compete to achieve higher levels of localization.” IKTVA is a new way of doing business with Saudi Aramco that drives investments through contractors and material suppliers in localizing products and services, developing local supply chains, training and employing Saudi manpower. The program rewards contractors and material suppliers with significant achievements in localizing goods and services, salaries paid to Saudis, training and development for Saudis, and supplier development spending. And this year, the company added a new factor to the IKTVA formula, which is the localization of research and development, to foster the transfer of innovation and technology. The IKTVA program is in line with the objectives of Saudi Vision 2030 and the National Transformation Program to encourage the private sector to produce products and provide services locally, and to decrease the reliance on imports, especially in the energy sector and the related industries. The program recognizes prioritization of domestic value creation. It is designed to drive increased investment, economic diversification, job creation, and workforce development within the Kingdom. It aims to achieve 70% localization of all spending, creating a business environment that will provide thousands of new jobs, and enable 30% export of Saudi energy sector products by 2021. Saudi Aramco has achieved significant successes in localization since the launch of IKTVA program. Value of the company’s spending on locally manufactured products reached SR 10 billion in 2016, which comprises an all-time high share of 43% of total spending, a 14% increase from the previous year. The long standing relationship between Saudi Arabia and China can be further amplified with a host of new business and economic opportunities ranging from energy collaboration, knowledge and technology transfer, as well as innovation-driven industries, benefiting both countries and beyond, said Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and Chief Executive Officer, today at the China Development Forum (CDF) 2017 in Beijing. This year’s Forum took place just after the historic state visit to China by the Custodian of The Two Holy Mosques, King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud. Highlighting various opportunities for mutual growth, Nasser told ministers, officials and captains of industries that Saudi Arabia provides China’s defining strategic economic initiatives with an ideal platform for prosperous trade between the Middle East and Asia, providing the vital trade link to other regions surrounding the two. “We in Saudi Arabia have been closely following China’s three defining strategic economic initiatives – “Go Global”; “Belt and Road”; and “Made in China 2025”. That interest has only intensified with last year’s launch of “Saudi Vision 2030” and the parallels it has with all three.&nbsp; As a result, enormous opportunities are opening up for our countries and companies to seize,” he said in his speech at CDF’s Session III themed Made In China 2025 and Structural Reforms. “As President Xi said during King Salman’s state visit that both our countries should deepen cooperation in the energy sector, Saudi Aramco stands ready for opportunities to invest and to collaborate, and for opportunities that would bring our two nations even closer together,” Nasser said.&nbsp; He outlined three areas which could emerge from this dynamic synergy between both countries which augurs well for companies across a broad spectrum of industries. The first opportunity is about enhancing two-way investment flows between the two countries, which would help with both China’s “Go Global” and “Belt and Road”, as well as Saudi Vision 2030. “Chinese companies can benefit from the Kingdom’s strategic location on the Maritime Silk Road by establishing manufacturing, logistical and R&D bases, especially on the west coast of Saudi Arabia. From there, they can easily access large markets in the wider Middle East North Africa region, all the way up to Europe and they can also easily access the Kingdom’s vast energy resources and supply of petrochemicals,” he said. “Equally, with the right opportunities, we would like to further strengthen our oil supply relationship and multiply our investments in China, particularly in the downstream.” The second area is actually aligned with the Paris Climate Agreement. It is anticipated that hydrocarbons will still be meeting a significant portion of the world’s primary energy demand even a quarter of a century from now, and all sources of energy would be needed. “However, we must deal with carbon emissions in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. This is where hydrogen and Carbon Capture Utilization and Storage could be game-changers for Saudi Arabia and China,” he said. Although hydrogen mostly comes from gas, it could also increasingly come from oil and coal, Nasser explained. “If Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage and hydrocarbons can be made to work together, then green hydrogen is within our reach,” he said. This can revolutionize future mobility; in fact hydrogen-based fuel cell vehicles are not far behind electric vehicles while hydrogen-based fuel cells also have the power to revolutionize electric power generation. When combined with CCUS, Saudi Arabia could convert its vast oil and gas resources into clean hydrogen-based mobility and power while China could convert its vast coal resources into clean hydrogen-based electricity, Nasser said during his panel remarks. The third area is “non-combustible” uses of oil to turn it into a variety of new materials. Saudi Aramco’s Crude-to-Chemicals initiative which aims to directly convert crude into petrochemicals, eliminating the entire refining step of the process, could change the competitive dynamics of petrochemical feedstocks and assist in developing advanced new materials as well as enable new uses. That could positively have an impact with New Materials as part of the ten focus areas of Made in China 2025. Apart from speaking at the CDF, Nasser’s agenda in Beijing also involved the signing of two memoranda of understanding (MOUs) between Saudi Aramco and China North Industries Corporation (Norinco Group) and Aerosun Corporation. The MOU with Norinco enables further strategic cooperation and downstream investment opportunities in China which include the development of a refinery and chemical facilities. The MOU with Aerosun would involve manufacturing of reinforced thermoplastic (RTP) pipe as well as R&D. Nasser also held several bilateral meetings with leaders of key Chinese entities. They include Wang Yupu, Chairman of Sinopec; Wang Jianlin, Chairman of Wanda Group; and Huang Danhua, Vice Chairman of State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission of the State Council (SASAC). He also attended the Saudi-Chinese Investment Forum which was presided by King Salman. He also attended the closing ceremony of the Roads of Arabia exhibition which was presided by King Salman and Chinese President Xi Jinping. The exhibition which was on its Asian tour, was launched last December with China as the first location, sponsored by Saudi Aramco. Nasser also attended the inauguration of the King Abdulaziz Public Library branch at the Peking University by King Salman where the Saudi monarch was also conferred an honorary doctorate by the university. The library’s role is to motivate cultural communication between the Arab world and China, as well as providing a conducive platform for researchers. It is expected to further enhance bilateral relations and strengthen the bridge of cultural and social ties between both nations. CDF is China’s most preeminent platform for dialogue between China’s senior leadership and representatives from global leading businesses, international organizations, and scholars from home and abroad. This is the forum’s 18th edition since its debut in 2000. The theme of this year’s Forum - “China and the World: Economic Transformation through Structural Reforms”, addresses key topical issues concerning China and the world at this time of profound global uncertainties, including the economy and industry, international relations, public policy, sustainable development, health and welfare, finance, and technology and innovation.The energy industry is on a journey of long and complex transition that will see the world reliant on the full palette of energy sources — including oil and gas — for many decades to come, Saudi Aramco’s president and CEO Amin Nasser told the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ 2017 Middle East Oil & Gas Show and Conference in Bahrain last week.   A record 9,353 industry professionals attended the four-day conference, which was held with a theme of “Transforming the Industry through Innovation and Operational Excellence.”   The event, held under the patronage of His Royal Highness Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, the Prime Minister of Bahrain, covered a range of topics focused on the future of hydrocarbons in the energy mix. The biennial conference has played host to more than 92,000 industry leaders and professionals since its inception nearly four decades ago.   MEOS 2017 also honored the conference’s previous chairmen, including former Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, and current adviser to the Royal Court, HE Ali I. Al-Naimi, who addressed the conference on behalf of the former MEOS chairmen, saying that change was one constant in the industry.   At the opening ceremony, Nasser shared the stage with HE Mohammed bin Khalifa Al Khalifa, Bahrain’s Minister of Oil and Chairman of the National Oil and Gas Authority, for a discussion on what lies ahead for the industry.    Al Qahtani also highlighted the challenges facing the industry, including upstream costs. These more than doubled in the first decade of the century, staying at that level, before declining during the recent downturn. However, costs were again picking up as activity increased.   “That’s also influenced by the growing maturity of oil fields, and new discoveries and developments being more challenging,” he said. “What makes this trend in our industry even more troubling is that, by contrast, the costs of alternatives are on a downward trend. At some point, their paths will cross. Combine rising costs with continued volatility and cyclicality of the oil market, and pressure will only build on the industry.”    There was, said Al Qahtani, an urgent need to radically transform the industry, rapidly, and across the board, without compromising safety and the environment.    He outlined five areas that are critical for delivering transformation: innovation, the financial bottom line, cost management, technology, and talent.    Al Qahtani stressed that innovation defines the history of the oil industry, and its current success, concluding, “It’s why I’m confident that we, inside the industry, will lead the radical and rapid transformation that’s essential to secure our future.”   MEOS 2017 attracted a record number of submissions and more than 270 papers were presented during 50 technical sessions, covering topics related to reservoirs, production and facilities, exploration, drilling and completions, project management and human resources, among others.   Saudi Aramco and the Yokogawa Electric Corporation, a Japanese pioneer in distributed control systems, recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) that will have Yokogawa spearheading a proactive Saudization policy— thereby contributing to the Saudi economy whilst providing high-quality local services in Saudi Arabia.    The leading distribution control systems company monitors and controls processes in a board range of production facilities. Its comprehensive solution includes sensors (pressure transmitters, flow-meters, and analyzers) control systems, software that improves productivity, and services that optimize plant lifecycle costs. These solutions play vital supporting roles in many industries like: oil, chemical, natural gas, electric power, iron and steel, pulp and paper, pharmaceuticals, and food industries.   Using its manufacturing, research and development capabilities, and digitization in the oil and gas industry, Yokogawa will support the Kingdom Vision 2030 by helping Saudi Arabia transition into a knowledge-based economy, and imparting skills and manufacturing know-how to the local workforce.   The MoU will promote a mutual collaborative framework for investment and expansion, like new technology piloting, field testing, research and development. Under the agreement, Yokogawa and Saudi Aramco will work on the following:Saudi Aramco is committed to pursuing solutions that allow the company to unlock resources in new ways, using methods that are flexible, efficient, and help preserve the environment.    This commitment has led the EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) to establish the Upstream High-Power Laser Laboratory — a state-of-the-art and cross-disciplinary research facility for subsurface photonics. In this facility, skilled young Saudis will collaborate with scientists from around the world to solve the upstream challenges of the future.   Subsurface photonics is a promising area of upstream research that will become crucial for the future of the recovery, and production of hydrocarbons. In this field, collaborations are essential to promote innovation and success. Therefore, during its first years of operation, the laboratory began partnerships with renowned institutions — in-Kingdom and around the globe — to design novel optical fibers, create innovative laser sources, and lead the development of downhole laser tools.   “All of us at Saudi Aramco are working toward the same goal — to remain the world’s most reliable supplier of energy. It’s a responsibility we take very seriously,” said Nasir K. Al Naimi, vice president of Petroleum Engineering and Development. “In that sense, laser technology is a game changer for the oil and gas industry. It allows us to harvest the power of light to unlock petroleum resources with unprecedented efficiency, reliability and adaptability. It is a powerful solution for the future.”   The traits of laser technology make it versatile and adaptable to numerous applications in the oil and gas industry. It brings many advantages over traditional methods for drilling and workover: a higher rate of penetration, reduced costs for tripping, casing, and bit replacement. It also requires a smaller surface footprint, compared to current drilling and stimulation systems; and is a waterless alternative to fracturing.   Small footprint, compact, economical, moveable, sporadic maintenance, directional, and waterless — these are the essential elements for a healthy and environmentally friendly technology.   “We are building capabilities, training young Saudi researchers on high-power lasers, probing new means to guide the interactions between light and rocks, and matter in general. Our research encompasses many areas of photonics and petroleum engineering, along with fundamentals, applications, and the operation of the system,” explained Sameeh Batarseh, laser program team leader with EXPEC ARC’s Production Technology Division.   A high-power laser beam can melt or vaporize rocks, depending on the beam’s energy and the rock’s properties. For example, the light can be controlled to vaporize stuck pipes or drill rocks; the latter avoids fishing or well deviating, the former prevents melt and reduces material disposal.   When a laser beam impinges on a rock, a portion of the incident energy is absorbed and transformed into thermal energy. As a result, the stone heats up, and what follows depends on the energy flow and its intensity.    “In the past, we characterized the effects of high-power laser irradiation on rocks, we identified mechanisms to control the energy flow, and determined potential applications,” Batarseh explained. “We proved that laser and laser-assisted technologies are a non damaging, flexible, and cost-effective alternative to drilling, completion, and stimulation of oil and gas wells.”    To prove the concept, various rock types were first irradiated with high-power lasers and later meticulously examined. The experimental data demonstrated that high-power lasers could cut and bore rocks at ambient pressure, and that high-pressure and stress enhanced the laser’s ability to perforate reservoir rocks.   This equipment will allow the team to create downhole environmental conditions in the lab and test new scenarios and techniques.    In the field, the team is planning to use a similar laser system and optics to those in used and developed in their laboratory. Yet, to attain the final goal, the laser beam should transmit with little optical loss over tens of kilometers underneath the earth, enduring a harsh environment, before it can reach the laser head and hit the rock.    Optical fibers will be used to transmit the high-power laser beam from the surface to the subterranean target.    This requires an unprecedented innovation in optical fiber technology. It is an ambitious endeavor — its outcome a suite of solutions, capabilities, and breakthroughs that will make Saudi Aramco the leader in high-power laser delivery for downhole applications.   The team at EXPEC ARC is currently investigating innovative concepts, optical fibers, and materials that will create the first ultra-low-loss and long-length optical fiber for high-power laser delivery.   “EXPEC ARC has maintained a steady perseverance in acquiring the most sophisticated tools and resources to support our strategy: develop high impact technologies for our proponents. The addition of the laser lab to our facilities is the result of an extensive, dedicated, and influential research, which has proven to be of high impact and value to Saudi Aramco’s upstream business and future. The products of this research have the potential to change the way the industry unlocks reserves in conventional and unconventional reservoirs,” said Ali Al-Meshari, EXPEC ARC manager.   It’s fast, it’s cost-effective, and it has revolutionized the delivery of rig crews working on some of the world’s biggest offshore oil fields.   The new Sea Bus service introduced last year by Saudi Aramco’s Marine Department at Tanajib marks yet another major initiative undertaken as part of an ongoing marine business transformation. The new offshore transportation services follow the successful implementation of the Marine Offshore Floating Hub at Tanajib.    Launched in early 2016, the service uses dedicated Fast Crew Supply Vessels (FCSVs) and has so far exceeded all expectations. The need for the Sea Bus service resulted from the increasing numbers of offshore oil drilling rigs, which raised the demand on our Aviation department to transfer additional rig crews and critical equipment to and from rigs. Crew transfers were previously conducted by helicopter, and this new service is taking a considerable load off of Aviation while also reducing transportation costs.   Among the many benefits of the new program are the cancellation of the procurement of 14 conventional crew boats; a reduction of the load on the helicopter fleet; and a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions due to the reduced number of required vessels.   It is estimated that the program will result in a cost avoidance of about $40 million annually.   After inception of the program in February 2016, more than 45,000 passengers were safely transported from the Tanajib Marine Facility by year-end 2016, with approximately 55,000 passengers per annum expected to be transferred in subsequent years.   Emergency express cargo and critical equipment transfers are also performed on a daily basis to avoid costly rig shutdowns during well-control issues and ensure safe and reliable operations.   The service, which covers the Safaniyah, Manifa, Zuluf, and Marjan oil fields, is an ongoing initiative of the Marine Department’s Logistics Transformation Model that will eventually be rolled out to cover all offshore passenger and equipment transfers. All offshore passenger transfers are centralized at a single point of control, thereby maximizing deployment and availability of the service.    The service’s expansion will eventually include even more offshore customers, such as Northern Area Oil Operations, Terminal Operations, Northern Area Gas Operations, and also the Marine Department’s own vessels and barges. Young Saudi talent is playing a key role in the wider transformation of Marine Logistics operations, particularly the Sea Bus service:There are currently two FCSVs that are being utilized for the Sea Bus Service — Alya McCall and Seacor Leopard. The Alya McCall features a waterjet-propelled monohull design with a top speed of 38 knots, a capacity for 100 passengers, and 327m2 of deck space for cargo. The passenger area has large LCD screens, DVD, WiFi and stabilized satellite television that works anytime on the move. The vessel has a ride-stabilization system to enhance passenger comfort and is fitted with a DP2 dynamic position system for accurate station keeping alongside rigs. Additional safety features include FiFi-1 firefighting capability and standby certification (survivor craft). The Seacor Leopard is a waterjet-propelled catamaran design with a top speed of 42 knots, capacity for 135 passengers, and 260m2 of deck space for cargo. It has a VIP and conference area refreshment center, large LCD screens, DVD, WiFi, and stabilized satellite television. The vessel has high-tech equipment installed on the bridge for navigating safely at high speeds. The vessel has a ride-stabilization system to enhance passenger comfort and is fitted with a DP3 dynamic positioning system for excellent station keeping alongside rigs. Additional safety features include standby safety certification. The Marine Department’s Sea Bus initiative is another step-change in the way Saudi Aramco manages offshore oil and gas operations. The latest technologies and equipment have been procured to provide safe, reliable, and efficient offshore transfer services. The service is successfully managed by a dedicated team of young Saudi dispatchers - a crucial cog in the company’s future. The experience of managing this safety critical aspect of offshore personnel transfer will better equip these future leaders for the challenges that they may one day face. Saudi Arabian Oil Company ("Saudi Aramco") finalized with Royal Dutch Shell plc (“Shell”) the execution of definitive agreements to separate and transfer the assets, liabilities and businesses of the Motiva Enterprises LLC (“Motiva”) joint venture. “Our longstanding investment in the United States is continuing to evolve and strengthen. We view this transaction as a positive outcome of the strong and historic business of Saudi Aramco in the U.S., and see next steps to support Motiva in its ongoing role as a major refiner and a top provider of refined products and derivatives in the U.S.,” said Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco. Under terms of the agreements, the assets retained by Saudi Aramco’s wholly owned Saudi Refining, Inc. (“SRI”) subsidiary include: Nasser added, “We fully support Motiva’s transition to a stand-alone integrated downstream provider of energy and with its strategic position, I am confident it will enable new opportunities for growth in the U.S. energy sector. Saudi Aramco will provide Motiva with the strong financial support and necessary liquidity needed to maintain an investment grade credit rating and capitalize on growth and expansion opportunities to help the company become a highly competitive major downstream player in the U.S.” Dan Romasko, Motiva President and CEO, said: “In preparation for transaction close, we are working diligently on two fronts – delivering on our 2017 business plan and preparing the company for a successful transition to stand-alone operation.” The transaction is subject to regulatory approval and is expected to close in the second quarter of 2017. Saudi Aramco’s subsidiaries and affiliates have operated in the U.S. for more than 60 years and are a contributor to the U.S. energy sector through employment, partnerships with energy peers and oil services companies, joint industry and academic collaborations, and research and technology development in three US-based research labs. SRI’s involvement in the Port Arthur refinery began more than 25 years ago.   Disclosure NotesSeeking an innovative way to capture carbon dioxide (CO2) by using a new battery setup is the goal of Cornell University doctoral candidate and Saudi Aramcon Wajdi Al Sadat, who gained special recognition from the prestigious journal, Scientific American, for his idea. Describing the idea as “carbon-breathing batteries,” the magazine recently named his proposal as the first of “10 Ideas That Will Change the World.” One day, the batteries might outfit a power plant or automotive tail pipe — using CO2 in the process instead of producing it.   In a paper originally published in the highly recognized, peer-reviewed multidisciplinary journal Science Advances, Al Sadat worked with Cornell professor Lynden Archer to demonstrate CO2 capture using aluminum in the metal/oxygen (O2) electrochemical system of a battery, deviating from the classical approach of carbon capture, and addressing the conversion of CO2 in the same system.    “We envision a system that integrates power generation sources and renewables so it reduces CO2 emissions from fossil-based fuels and enables the energy storage of renewables,” says Al Sadat. “At the same time, the captured CO2 is converted to an oxalate-based chemical, a useful feedstock for other industries, thereby expanding the value chain.”    Al Sadat notes that aluminum is the third most abundant element in the Earth’s crust, making it much cheaper than other metals, addressing the economical adoptability of the technology. “It also is inherently safe, so even if the electrochemical system is exposed to air/moisture or other conditions, it would not result in a hazardous scenario as is the case with lithium or sodium metals,” he says. Al Sadat says he has constructed, tested and analyzed close to 800 batteries using the new system.   Since the Science Advances paper was published, Al Sadat says the work has been featured in more than 30 technical journals and websites.  Al Sadat joined Saudi Aramco in 1996 as part of the CDPNE program. In 2010, he joined the R&DC Carbon Management Team, working on pre- and post-combustion CO2 capture technologies, including the first mobile capture demonstration of its kind. This paper represents a prominent part of his doctoral thesis, and he is currently working on strategies to help the adoption of the unique system. He plans to graduate from Cornell this summer. “Pursuing my doctorate and working on very challenging and important problems has been my goal since before graduating high school,” he says. “To get the opportunity to pursue my passion in a school such as Cornell, work with visionary people like professor Archer, and receive the recognition from the scientific community on my contribution is something for which I will always be grateful. I share this success with my family and Saudi Aramco.” Al Sadat is one of five Saudi Aramco employees working on their doctorates at Cornell. Saudi Aramco hosted on March 1 and 2 a meeting of GCC oil and gas executives and experts in supply chain management to discuss and share experiences in the quickly evolving supply chain sector in the Gulf countries. Addressing the 32nd GCC Supply Chain Committee meeting held at the Sofitel Hotel in Al-Khobar under the theme “Supply Chain Excellence in the GCC,” Saudi Aramco VP Procurement and Supply Chain, Abdulaziz Abdulkarim delivered a speech on Saudi Aramco supply chain transformation which is designed to meet the company’s operational requirements and support Vision 2030, leveraging cutting edge technology and enabling best-in-class procurement processes. Abdulkarim said: “The role of our supply chain organizations in optimizing investments is more important than ever. We must continue to drive greater efficiencies and find ways to do things better and more cost effective, while maintaining higher levels of quality and delivery and leveraging enabling technologies.” This is the third time Saudi Aramco hosts the GCC energy supply chain event. The meeting provided a platform and agenda for discussion between supply chain organizations of National Oil and Gas Companies (NOCs) from the GCC to discuss mutual areas of interest and identify opportunities for benchmarking and sharing of best practices. Topics discussed included Supply Chain Transformation Strategies, Inventory Management, Cost Efficiency Challenges and Solutions, and e-Marketplace - which is designed to provide a collaborative regional procurement platform to leverage procurement among GCC members. Attendees included high level delegates from supply chain organizations including Abu Dhabi National Oil Company, Bahrain Petroleum Company, Qatar Petroleum, Kuwait Oil Company, Kuwait National Petroleum Company and Petroleum Development of Oman. Saudi Aramco’s Drilling and Workover (D&WO) marked a major turning point in late 2016 with the signing of two new drilling joint ventures (JVs) with Nabors and Rowan.    Within a few months, the JVs — an onshore JV between Nabors and Saudi Aramco, and an offshore JV with Rowan — will become fully operational, providing Saudi Aramco with the drilling services it needs while also transforming and industrializing the economy and creating thousands of local jobs. Saudi Aramco will have 50% ownership in both JVs.    If all of this sounds familiar, it may be because Saudi Aramco has aligned itself fully with the Kingdom’s own National Transformation Program, as spelled out in the Saudi Vision 2030 plan last year. Together, Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom will ensure that every business activity initiative will not only be good for business, but will also strengthen the economy and the sustainable growth of the Kingdom.    “Our strategy looks to leverage the scale of our drilling activities to create two national champions that will enable the development of a dynamic energy sector,” said AbdulHameed A. Al Rushaid, executive director for D&WO. “The drilling JVs are anchor projects that grew out of Saudi Aramco’s upstream oil field services and equipment industry strategy which supports the wider development and localization of industries such as rig and rig equipment manufacturing and casting and forging, as well as the Maritime manufacturing complex. With these new JVs, Saudi Aramco gains a number of critical advantages that will help to secure the company’s position as a global leader in energy, and the Kingdom’s position as a hub for energy services. Not only are these JVs commercially attractive and profitable, but they help Saudi Aramco to meet the objectives of its Competitive Saudi Energy Sector Strategy, including the following: “This strategy is a major milestone and a step change in the way we do business in Saudi Arabia,” said Al Rushaid. “We want to create a national drilling champion to meet the ever-increasing demand for the company’s upstream drilling activities. We also want to sustain the company’s position as a global leader and as the most reliable supplier of energy.”  When the JVs were announced as part of Saudi Aramco’s In Kingdom Total Value Add Forum 2016, president and CEO Amin Nasser explained how investment in local industry not only helps Saudi Aramco control costs, but the company also uses its annual spending activities to strengthen the Saudi economy. “These investments are part of a wider program to leverage our core activities to help enable the sustainable development of the Kingdom’s economy through diversification — and the development of an internationally competitive and dynamic local energy sector, supported by national champions,” Nasser said. When it came time to select JV partners, it was clear that both Nabors and Rowan were dominant players in the drilling services field.  Nabors, which has operated in Saudi Arabia for more than four decades, owns and operates the world’s largest land-based drilling rig fleet and is the largest drilling contractor in Saudi Arabia. Over the past 15 years, Nabors has also directly created thousands of jobs for Saudi citizens. Rowan is a global provider of jack-up rigs and ultra-deepwater drillships, with operations in the Arabian Gulf, Gulf of Mexico, and the North Sea. Currently, Rowan has the largest offshore drilling fleet in Saudi waters, and with the creation of the new offshore drilling JV, that position will grow even more. Rowan’s history spans more than 90 years. Currently, a JV setup and readiness team has been formed and is working toward launching the JVs in the second quarter of 2017. The greatest challenge is to work with our JV partners to ensure a seamless transfer of assets without interruption to Saudi Aramco D&WO operations. Al Rushaid said he is “very proud that the two JV deals have been finalized. “This is going to be an investment in the Kingdom for generations to come,” he added. “The deal will have a positive impact on job creation, as companies will receive graduates from the Saudi Arabian Drilling Academy and Saudi Petroleum Services Polytechnic to man the new rigs. In the short-term, the JV rigs will operate in the Kingdom, and help the company to meet its needs for drilling services. And in the long-term, we can begin to see these two companies as regional and international drilling companies that make Saudi Arabia a hub for energy services.”  The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) and Petroliam Nasional Berhad (PETRONAS) today signed a Share Purchase Agreement (SPA), allowing Saudi Aramco’s equity participation in PETRONAS’ Refinery & Petrochemical Integrated Development (RAPID) project in the southern Malaysian state of Johor.   Witnessed by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman Bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and the Right Honorable Dato’ Sri Najib Tun Abdul Razak, Prime Minister of Malaysia, the agreement was signed by Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco and Datuk Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin, President & Group CEO, PETRONAS.   The signing ceremony was held in conjunction with King Salman’s state visit to Malaysia. Also present at the ceremony was His Excellency Khalid A. Falih, Saudi Arabia’s Minister of Energy, Industry & Mineral Resources and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saudi Aramco.   Upon the completion of the transaction, subject to regulatory approvals and the completion of other associated agreements, both partners will hold equal ownership in selected ventures and assets of the RAPID project within the Pengerang Integrated Complex (PIC).   The RAPID project is part of the PIC development undertaken by PETRONAS and is positioned to be a regional downstream oil and gas industrial hub, paving a new frontier of technology and economic development in the Southeast Asia region.   This partnership marks the beginning of a strategic, mutually beneficial relationship providing RAPID with high-impact strengths and synergies from both Saudi Aramco and PETRONAS.    “On the occasion of the historic state visit to Malaysia by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz and in his presence, Saudi Aramco is proud to be entering into a deeper partnership with our world class partner PETRONAS via the RAPID project,” Saudi Aramco’s president and CEO Nasser said. “Together with Malaysia, the Southeast Asia region offers tremendous growth opportunities and today’s agreement further strengthens Saudi Aramco’s position as the leading supplier of petroleum feedstock to Malaysia and Southeast Asia, and with RAPID’s strategic location in a prolific hub, it would also serve to enhance energy security in the Asia-Pacific region.”   Under the partnership, Saudi Aramco will meet most of the crude feedstock requirements of the refinery, with natural gas, power and other utilities supplied by PETRONAS.   PETRONAS’ President & Group CEO Datuk Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin said, “The PIC is one of the largest industrial developments in the region as well as PETRONAS’ largest downstream investment on a single site to date.”    Wan Zulkiflee added, “The signing of this Agreement is truly a historic moment for the industry as it is not often that two professionally run National Oil Companies enter into a partnership in a world-scale Greenfield project. This partnership will also bring together two organizations with strong reputation, wealth of operational experience and proven record in developing mega projects as well as having commercial networks in different markets globally. I also look forward to continue to explore other potential areas of collaboration and partnership which will further deepen our long-term relationship.”   With capacity to refine 300,000 barrels of crude per day, RAPID’s refinery will produce a host of refined petroleum products, including gasoline and diesel which meets Euro 5 fuel specifications; as well as feedstock for its integrated petrochemical complex producing 3.5 million tonnes per annum of products.    Situated 400 kilometers south of Malaysia’s capital Kuala Lumpur, the PIC development is almost 60 percent complete and is on track for refinery start-up in 2019.   Apart from RAPID, which comprises the refinery, cracker and the downstream petrochemical complex, the PIC, located on a 6,242-acre site, also includes the development of associated facilities such as a co-generation plant, an LNG re-gasification terminal, a raw water supply project, a deep water terminal, as well as centralized and shared utility facilities.    The PIC forms part of Malaysia’s ambitious 22,000-acre Pengerang Integrated Petroleum Complex (PIPC) under the Government’s Economic Transformation Programme to establish new engines of growth and push the nation into a new frontier of technology and economic development in the oil and gas downstream sector. The search for oil and gas requires geologists and explorationists to conduct studies on outcrops of rock layers that hold hydrocarbon. Understanding the characteristics of such layers is essential in assessing their potential to hold and produce oil and gas. There are many difficulties that explorationists face in the field. Accessing steep, rocky outcrops in remote sections of the desert to analyze and chart the structure in pursuit of new hydrocarbon deposits is challenging and physically takes time. The formations are also often hazardous to access or climb. To eliminate such difficulties and reduce man-hours spent in the field, Geology Technology (GTT) researchers at the EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) have been developing a new concept and are now sending unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) to conduct “virtual geological field trips” easily gliding over and more accurately documenting challenging geological features and terrain. Bringing a “virtual” outcrop to the office and working with it on a computer screen is a dream come true.     EXPEC ARC conducted the first field trip to the Lidam area to trial test the new concept. About 5,000 aerial photos were acquired covering the entire outcrop. Despite difficult weather conditions including rain, wind and turbulence, a resolution of 0.25 mm per pixel was achieved in some vertical sections. Two half-day missions were needed to achieve this first milestone.    “This mission would have taken over two days and required more people by the conventional method of acquiring several geological measured sections and would not have provided us the detailed results of the UAV’s capabilities,” said Salem H. Al Shammari, GTT geological consultant and project leader. “This technology definitely saves us time and effort and will become quicker after a few more trials.”   “We are building high resolution digital models of the outcrops from the UAV photos using photogrammetry techniques and can interact with these models directly from our offices using standard workstations,” said Mokhles Mezghani, GTT Multiscale Geological Modeling focus area champion. “The technology is truly cost saving and more accurate.”   “The novel application has significant business impact,” said Maher Marhoon, GTT chief technologist, “which we plan to fully implement to improve geological analysis for our exploration customers and training for Saudi Aramco earth scientists.”    The UAVs improve several areas:   “This new technique will revolutionize the way we conduct aspects of our field work,” said Ali A. Al-Meshari, EXPEC ARC acting manager, “and illustrates how our researchers strive to deliver creative and effective technology solutions to Saudi Aramco’s upstream business challenges.”   The next expansive stage for this EXPEC ARC technology development is in collaboration with the eMap Division/Remote Sensing Services group of the Support Business Applications Department to locate specific minerals, such as bentonite and barite, used in Saudi Aramco drilling operations. In addition to the high resolution digital camera, other tools and sensors can be attached to the UAV for various purposes, which are required in identifying the properties of minerals.   “Once this technology is deployed, it will open a highly advantageous window of field mapping for our explorationists, greatly facilitating how they conduct their field work,” said Al Shammari. Remarks by Amin H. Nasser, president & CEO, Saudi Aramco The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman ibn Abdulaziz Al-Saud His Excellency Dato’ Sri Najib Tun Abdul Razak Your Highnesses, Excellencies and distinguished guests Good afternoon. It is truly an honor to be here in Malaysia for this important signing ceremony with Petronas, Malaysia’s leading oil company. This agreement establishes a joint venture for a giant refining and chemicals complex in South Johor, under the kind auspices of the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques and His Excellency the Prime Minister of Malaysia. It is the fruit of about three years of continuous labor with Petronas, a company we see as an ideal partner globally, which is well-known for high standards and efficiency and for the professionalism of its employees and management. For us in Saudi Aramco, the agreement we are signing today is an integral and vital part of our refining and fuels marketing strategy, and chemicals business strategy. The project will be 50% owned by Saudi Aramco, and we will supply the refinery with at least half of its 300 thousand barrels per day refining capacity, representing a significant portion of future trade between the Kingdom and Malaysia. It will help to grow our global refining capacity from more than 5 million barrels per day currently to 8-10 by 2030. Similarly, it will help to grow our share of chemicals production capacity, across our global operations, from 12 million metric tons per year currently to 34 over the same period. In addition, from an engineering and industrial perspective, the project will help to meet Asia’s rising energy needs. It is a major milestone on so many levels, it not only benefits our companies, but our two great nations, the region, and the whole world. Thank you. Saudi Aramco recognized the achievements of its employees today at the company’s 2017 Excellence Awards Ceremony where the company’s President and Chief Executive Officer Amin H. Nasser presented awards to 41 of its most determined, driven and innovative employees.
 The annual event highlighted the noteworthy and cutting-edge accomplishments of individuals and teams from within Saudi Aramco’s various business and technical units, underlining their passion and motivation for the work they do and the significant contributions they make. In its fourth year holding this event, the company honors ‘excellence’ as one of its five corporate values, and continues its undivided commitment to strive for achieving the best results and addressing new challenges as we play a role in leveraging our unique position to build a thriving economy for the Kingdom. Nasser said: "Technology and innovation are more important than ever to our ambitious growth strategy and support of the Kingdom’s transformation." From Engineering to Geology, Information Technology to Finance, and Science, each of the honorees have set a standard of excellence that resonates throughout Saudi Aramco and on to the youth of the Kingdom.
Rising 162 feet above the rolling dunes outside of ‘Ain Dar is the latest addition to Saudi Aramco’s drilling rig fleet. It is the first rig to be designed by Saudi Aramco engineers and built according to the company’s specifications, and it will be a key component as the company moves toward greater localization of drilling services through our two new joint ventures (JVs) with Nabors Industries Ltd. and Rowan Companies Plc. The rig started drilling the first well and will give its crew of Saudi operators and engineers an opportunity to test out the capabilities of the most up-to-date drill rig in Saudi Arabia and the GCC region. On the drill rig floor, perched 45 feet above the ground below, rig project leader Khaled Al-Said watched with pride as a driller uses a joystick to direct a length of pipe into position, with the guiding hands of some skilled rig-men. Above is a monkey board, where a length of drill pipe is moved into position automatically, without a danger to rig workers. “This device protects our people, and it saves lives,” Al-Said said, adding that the rig is an example of the company’s commitment to Saudization. “All the rig crew are Saudi employees, and the young engineers are Saudis. This is one thing we are proud of: every step, from A to Z, from the development of scope of work to the commissioning in the field, is being done by Saudis.”While Al-Said and his team took a very close look at the drilling process and managed the design to eliminate risks, there will always be a need to have skilled people able to carry out operations, especially when automated systems go down. One of the more experienced crew men is Mohammed A. Al-Ghadeer, a tool pusher with 17 years of experience with D&WO. “With this new technology, there is a new challenge,” Al-Ghadeer said. “No single oil field is the same as another. It is like an ocean; there are so many different kinds of wells, and each one gives a different experience.” And this newest rig is a sure sign that the brightest days of Saudi Aramco’s drilling program are yet to come.Engineers from Saudi Aramco’s Research and Development Center (R&DC) recently conducted a five-day workshop at King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST) in Thuwal to teach the university students the basics of robotic system design, development, and programming.  The project-based workshop, titled “Design and Build Your Own Robot,” was conducted as part of the Winter Enrichment Program held at the university to give the 35 participating students a hands-on development experience with direct application to the industry. Engineers from the Intelligent Systems Team, part of the Oil & Gas Network Integrity (OGNI) division at Saudi Aramco, facilitated the workshop as a way to pass on their knowledge in building industrial robots.  The Intelligent Systems Team conducts cutting-edge research in the field of robotics to solve some of the company’s chronic operational challenges, including inspection and monitoring of assets that are difficult to access and reach, as well as reducing the cost and impact of corrosion. With their many years of experience designing field deployable robots, the team helped prepare future engineers for careers in this high-tech field. Three parallel specialties were covered, including mechanical design, electrical design, and embedded programming. Six interdisciplinary teams were formed — each of which included five or six students who covered the three different specializations providing insight into what it’s like to work on a robotics development team with each engineer responsible for a separate sub system critical to the operation of the overall system.  The workshop covered computer-aided design for both mechanical components and electronic boards, as well as the basics of programming embedded microcontrollers, which serve as the robot’s “brains.” Students then assembled robots, performed testing and debugging, and were able to troubleshoot electrical anomalies while fine-tuning their code. The six teams competed in a race, which was the culmination of the workshop, with each team using the robot they developed to complete certain timed tasks, including a remote-control race and an autonomous trajectory following challenge. The winning teams took their robots home as a prize, along with certificates documenting their achievement.  “I believe the workshop was a great and effective experience in improving both individual and team skills,” said Amjad Felemban, an attendee and student at KAUST. “The way the workshop divided team members into different project roles was essential in teaching someone how to build their technical skills and communicate with the rest of the team members in a workplace-like fashion.”Saudi Aramco has been in the base oils business for many years through its JVs which produce and market base oils independently. Said Al-Hadrami: Our base oils brands launch will capitalize on our renowned reputation of high quality products and our prominent position in meeting customers’ needs. Saudi Aramco has announced its intention to enter the base oils business. The Company made the announcement as part of its effort to optimize the value of its petroleum molecules and grow its refining and chemicals portfolio. Saudi Aramco has been integrating its downstream business in refining and marketing, in which petrochemicals and differentiated products play a major role. Saudi Aramco has been in the base oils business for many years through its joint ventures which produce and market base oils independently. Said Al-Hadrami, Vice President International Operations said: “We are very excited to launch our base oils brands and intend to streamline our base oils strategy, capitalizing on Saudi Aramco’s vast experience in the oil industry, its renowned reputation of high quality products and its prominent position worldwide in meeting customer’s needs. We will also build on the tremendous base oil industry experience within our affiliates, which spans several decades.” Saudi Aramco is seeking synergies among its affiliates by way of automotive Group II slates interchangeability and linkage. In order to advance these synergies, Saudi Aramco successfully completed a technical program based on 15 applications covering industry needs that include API (American Petroleum Institute) engine oils requirements. Furthermore, the Company successfully finalized the Passenger Car Motor Oil (PCMO) program as per the European ATIEL Code of Practice, and the successful finalization of the Heavy Duty Motor Oil (HDMO) program is expected within the year. In addition to the Group II slates interchangeability and linkage synergies, Saudi Aramco is also exploring further synergies amongst its affiliates with respect to their base oils offerings along with streamlining the marketing of these offerings in order to better serve customers. In its statement, Saudi Aramco also announced the launch of its three B-to-B base oils brands, namely aramcoDURA, aramcoPRIMA and aramcoULTRA. Ali Dogru, Saudi Aramco Fellow and chief technologist at our EXPEC Advanced Research Center, has been elected to the U.S. National Academy of Engineering (NAE). Dogru was elected based on his outstanding achievements in the “Development of High Performance Computing in Hydrocarbon Reservoir Simulation.”   Election to the NAE is considered the highest professional honor accorded to an engineer. The NAE is an American nonprofit, nongovernmental organization that operates engineering programs designed to meet national needs, encourages education and research, and recognizes the superior achievements of engineers.    Induction ceremony for the NAE “Class of 2017” will be held Oct. 8 in Washington, D.C.    Dogru earned his undergraduate and graduate degrees from Istanbul Technical University and later, his Ph.D. in Petroleum Engineering & Applied Mathematics from the University of Texas.    In 1974, he worked as an assistant professor of Mechanical Engineering at the University of Texas at Austin before serving in the military. He taught at the Norwegian Institute of Technology, Trondheim between 1974-75, was a research associate at the California Institute of Technology, Chemical Engineering with professor John Seinfeld, 1976-1977, and an associate professor at Istanbul Technical University, 1977-1978. He joined the Engineering Numeric Corporation of Core Labs in Dallas in 1979 where he developed the Thermal Reservoir Simulator and Chemical Flood Simulator, and conducted steam injection and carbon dioxide injection field tests.   In 1982, he joined the Mobil Research & Development Company in Dallas. In 1988, he transferred to Saudi Aramco as a loanee from Mobil Oil Corp, and then in 1996, he joined Saudi Aramco.   During his career with the company, Dogru conducted field simulation studies and led the development team for the company’s first Parallel Oil Water Enhanced Reservoir Simulator, POWERS, in 2000. In 2010, under his leadership, the team released the industry’s first billion-cell reservoir simulator, GigaPOWERS, and he is now leading a team to develop the company’s — and industry-first — simulator capable of using a trillion cells, TeraPOWERS.    Dogru is a member of a number of scientific and professional organizations and has earned a number of awards, including SPE’s John Franklin Carrl award and World Oil’s Innovative Thinker Award.  Members of Saudi Aramco’s management team, led by president and CEO Amin Nasser, visited Jazan last week to be updated on construction progress at the Jazan Economic City (JEC) and refinery and terminal projects.   The massive projects will transform the region and further boost Saudi Aramco’s already proven track record in delivering mega-projects designed to fuel a diversified economy for the Kingdom’s future and provide a solid platform for its Saudi Vision 2030 economic road map.   Nasser and other members of senior management toured the refinery complex, which is now about 70% complete.  Nasser addressed the Project Management Team (PMT), saying: “I would like to thank you all for your work. This project is very important for the region and we should be proud of the positive impact we are creating in terms of enabling an ecosystem. “We need to bring business and investment here, light industry and medium-sized industry. You are creating an ecosystem, creating opportunities for investment and job opportunities. In five years’ time, you will see a very different city. We need to execute the project safely and we are proud we are building this mega-project,” he added. Nasser said Saudi Aramco is now ahead of its peers in terms of safety performance, but he underlined the importance of a continued commitment to safety both on- and off-the-job. He also suggested a drive to mobilize potential investors in China and to highlight what JEC has to offer. In 2015, the Jazan Economic Forum gathered together more than 500 Saudi and foreign dignitaries and business leaders to showcase investment opportunities at the JEC. The EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) won two prominent awards during the Abu Dhabi International Petroleum Exhibition and Conference (ADIPEC) Awards Gala Dinner — the largest oil and gas awards event in the Middle East. The ‘Uthmaniyah CCS and CO2 EOR Project took first place for the “Best Oil & Gas Health, Safety and Environment Project,” and Mohannad Abdelaziz was selected as a winner in the “Young ADIPEC Engineer” award category. Saudi Aramco won three of the eight awards with the Production Facilities and Development Department selected in the “Best Oil & Gas Innovation or Technology” category for Big Bore Gas Completions.  The company was also recognized as a finalist in two categories: Khalid R. Alnoaimi for “Best Dissertation of the Year,” and Mohammed Geer for “Young ADIPEC Engineer,” both from EXPEC ARC. The ADIPEC awards recognize organizations and individuals that have been the most successful in setting new standards of innovation and excellence in the Middle East oil and gas industry. During the celebration, eight prestigious awards were presented to winners in seven categories.   Saudi Aramco launched the Kingdom’s first carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) and CO2 Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) project at ‘Uthmaniyah. The project is the first of its kind in the Middle East in terms of scale and operation, and one of the largest in the world. CO2 injection started in July 2015.   “This is a long-term project for the company with the primary objective to test the feasibility of permanently sequestering a portion of the injected CO2 through enhanced oil recovery” said Sunil Kokal, project leader with the EXPEC ARC Reservoir Engineering Technology Team.   The project is part of Saudi Aramco’s corporate carbon management strategy and road map. Implementation of the project demonstrates that the company is part of the solution to proactively address global environmental challenges and reduce its carbon footprint. The project is the epitome of a large multidisciplinary effort by a passionate team to address environmental issues and push the envelope on the monitoring and surveillance aspects. It involves many of the firsts in terms of technology deployment — some for the first time in the Kingdom — some for the first time in the Middle East, and some for the first time in the world. During the 18 months of CO2 injection, the response from the project has been very positive — both in terms of sequestration and oil production.   The long-term, high-impact project has been widely recognized during its deployment stages. Earlier in 2016, the Carbon Capture CO2 EOR project also won the Energy Institute’s “Environment Award,” and in 2015, the CO2 EOR demonstration project won the “Enhanced Oil Recovery Project of the Year” during the Arabian Oil & Gas Middle East awards.   Since joining EXPEC ARC in 2012, Abdelaziz has excelled as a young research engineer in oil and gas production technology research and development. Abdelaziz earned his B.S. in Mechatronics Engineering (first honors) from the University of Jordan and a M.S. in Mechanical Engineering (first honors) from King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST).   With a solid foundation in electrical and mechanical engineering, Abdelaziz was an effective member working toward the success of several award-winning projects such as the Manara Intelligent Completions and Well Lateral Intervention Tool. He came up with the idea of developing a unique untethered robotic platform as a novel intelligent rigless intervention method and translated the idea into a development project with the proof of concept completed and the first field prototype to commence soon. He is an active member in the artificial lift focus area working on field testing the innovative technology of cable deployed electrical submersible pump ESP (CD-ESP), developing a shallow set subsurface safety valve for CD-ESP, and leading efforts for ESP intelligent data analytics.   “I am very fortunate to learn from, and work with, EXPEC ARC professionals across multiple disciplines who possess top-notch oil and gas expertise,” said Abdelaziz. “The empowerment that young professionals experience in EXPEC ARC and the encouragement to innovate and realize our visions are some of the many benefits of working here.”   This June, Abdelaziz will finish his distance learning studies to obtain his second master’s degree from Heriot-Watt in Petroleum Engineering. Abdelaziz is an active Young Researcher committee member and one of the founding officers for the first KAUST alumni chapter in Saudi Arabia. He has twice received the EXPEC ARC SPARX (Special Achievement Recognition of Excellence) award, has filed three patents and published five international publications.   “Such steady recognition by ADIPEC and other award organizations over the years in a variety of categories demonstrates the high-impact contributions by EXPEC ARC innovators who lead and influence our industry’s research,” said Ali A. Al-Meshari, EXPEC ARC acting manager. “2016 proved to be a record year for EXPEC ARC, bringing 21 international awards to the company.” The Berri Gas Plant (BGP) Department recently received a national 2016 Energy Globe National Award for its energy conservation initiative of ethane liquefaction. Presented by the Austria Embassy Ambassador in Riyadh, the Energy Globe Award is one of the most prestigious environmental awards in the world. It distinguishes projects regionally, nationally, and globally that conserve resources such as energy. In April 2015, BGP developed a new liquefaction heat exchanger to keep its operations energy efficient, safe, and environmentally friendly. The plant successfully commissioned and started up the new exchanger at its ethane and NGL recovery plant. Permanently replacing the existing ethane liquefaction unit at BGP with the new exchanger increased optimization and efficiency thanks to the department’s continuous efforts in deploying new technologies. The process integration has contributed  effectively in saving electrical power and reducing maintenance and operations costs as BGP is able to operate only one heat exchanger instead of an entire ethane liquefaction system. In addition, the modifications raised the ethane liquefaction capacity by 25%. Saudi Aramco has announced the successful installation and functional test of the collaboratively developed Baker Hughes TransCoil rigless deployed electrical submersible pumping (ESP) system. Designed to bring wells on production faster with lower installation and replacement costs for ESPs. By eliminating the need for an expensive rig to replace the ESP, it is particularly advantageous in offshore wells where not only rig intervention costs are expensive, but also where limited rig availability can delay ESP replacement. “With our large ESP installation base, including many ESPs installed in our offshore fields, the ability to rapidly deploy ESPs riglessly provides tremendous cost reduction to our overall operations. The TransCoil system is particularly beneficial in our challenging high H2S fields as the premium metallurgy TransCoil can significantly extend the ESP operational life in harsh environment wells,” says Nasir K. Al Naimi, vice president of Petroleum Engineering and Development. “Collaboratively working with Baker Hughes, we have developed a solution that meets our immediate challenges and enables our long-term vision of one day ESP change-out.” Home to more than 1,500 ESP installations with more than 100 change outs per year in a harsh production environment, Saudi Aramco is constantly developing ESP technologies to reduce change-out time and improve run life. Because ESPs require a time-consuming rig installation on jointed tubing, the need for a more rapid rigless solution is critical for future operations. Conventional ESPs need workover rigs for deployment and their power cables are connected from the ESP bottom. In contrast, the TransCoil system is rapidly deployed with a coiled tubing (CT) unit into already installed production tubing, reducing deployment time from days to hours The technology also features an inverted ESP system with the motor connected directly to the powered CT. By eliminating the traditional ESP power cable-to-motor connection, the technology further improves overall system reliability. The combination of the power cable and the CT into a cohesive deployment string extends the operating range of the TransCoil system to 12,000 feet and enhances reliability, compared to existing CT deployed ESPs that simply pull the power cable through the CT. The TransCoil nickel alloy outer jacket also provides corrosion protection in harsh environments. The Khurais field was chosen to be the initial field trial location for the TransCoil system, with months of pre-job planning ensuring the trial’s success. The unique nature and complexity of the operations required multiple reviews both within Saudi Aramco and with the outside service providers. Weekly meetings addressed the job challenges of this new technology and helped develop the teamwork necessary for the successful field trial outcome. Rigless operations to install the ESP commenced in mid-December 2016. Deployment operations of the TransCoil system went smoothly and the first-time rigless operations proved efficient in reducing installation time nearly 50% over the rig-based installation. Japan’s Miyagi Prefecture LP Gas Association recently held an appreciation ceremony in Sendai to express gratitude to those who provided disaster relief support after the Great East Japan earthquake in 2011. The ceremony, named “Recovery/Appreciation/Fly to the Future,” coincided with the company’s 60th founding anniversary. Aramco Asia-Japan, as a representative of Saudi Aramco, was invited to the ceremony as a special guest and received a certificate of appreciation in recognition of its role and contribution to the emergency relief program based on Saudi Arabia’s million-dollar emergency fund. Among 26 entities that were recognized during the ceremony, Saudi Aramco was the only non-Japanese company honored. A total of more than 240 people attended the ceremony, including distinguished guest Yoshihiro Murai, governor of Miyagi Prefecture. The event was covered by local broadcasters and newspapers. During the ceremony, Hiroshi Onodera, chairman of Miyagi Prefecture LP Gas Association, explained its history and commemorated the Great East Japan Earthquake, expressing his deep appreciation for the emergency relief by saying “invaluable support for people who are aiming to the full recovery of Tohoku has helped reconstruction of the community, its businesses, and its people. The Saudi Arabia LPG Emergency Fund was highly appreciated by people who were forced to live in temporary housing at that time and contributed to the bright image of the LPG industry itself.” Ali B. Al Masoud, senior marketing manager in Marketing Services and Portfolio Management at Aramco Asia-Japan, said, “We are pleased that our humble contribution supported the affected areas and people.” Masoud mentioned a message from HE Ali I. Al-Naimi that noted he was particularly struck by the fact that those residents who were able to move out of the temporary housing have faithfully refunded their unused LP gas coupons to the fund, thereby enabling the launch of Phase II of the joint initiative with Japan’s Ministry of Energy Trade and Industry to establish standby emergency LP gas supply stations in 25 locations across the disaster area. He also congratulated Japan for the impressive recovery work and complimented the genuine spirit of the Japanese people while ensuring Saudi Arabia’s continuous commitment to its friends, especially during such difficult times. Saudi Aramco showcased a range of sustainability initiatives — including clean energy technology and carbon management solutions — at the state-of-the-art Saudi Pavilion in the Abu Dhabi Sustainability Week 2017. “Our presence here is to support the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s aspiration in tackling climate change and meeting its sustainable goals. Our goal is to present a suite of technologies and initiatives that are market relevant and acceptable energy solutions, which helps to address Kingdom and global challenges and aspirations for a cleaner future,” said Ahmad O. Al Khowaiter, chief technology officer for Saudi Aramco. Saudi Aramco’s presence at the event was in line with the Kingdom’s energy transformation agenda, which will see us working with relevant stakeholders in driving forward a solid and sustainable energy framework to meet the requirements of the Paris Climate Agreement, which was ratified by Saudi Arabia last year prior to COP 22. The event also provided Saudi Aramco a platform to outline initiatives in both technology and innovation, aligned with the Kingdom’s aspiration for a cleaner energy future. Saudi Aramco’s technology roadmap broadly supports Saudi Vision 2030, and more specifically, the ongoing energy transformation in the Kingdom. Al Khowaiter also participated in a panel session titled “The Role of Technology and Innovation in Enabling the Energy Sector Transformation,” which was within the work stream “Focus on Saudi Arabia: How Economic Transformation Will Fast-track Investment in Renewables.” During the session, Al Khowaiter explained in great detail about the company’s pivotal role in improving energy efficiency in the industry. “Efficiency is clearly the key to achieve sustainable energy solutions. We at Saudi Aramco view sustainability as a strategic research area to produce cleaner energy technology,” he said. “We are also committed to explore the vast potentials of renewables such as wind and solar. It will take time as we find the right economics, but we are surely getting there.” Al Khowaiter said that ultimately, the goal is to close the carbon cycle by using all available resources whether hydrocarbon-based or alternatives. “We see CO2 as a future feedstock for the world; plants convert CO2 from the atmosphere to sustain life as we know it, and our emphasis should be on closing the carbon cycle through innovative solutions,” he said. Al Khowaiter said Saudi Aramco is playing a significant role for the Kingdom by investing in scalable solutions, turning emissions into value-added products, and leveraging its long standing expertise in minimizing greenhouse gas emissions. Earlier in the week, Saudi Aramco announced a renewable energy milestone with the commissioning of the Kingdom’s first wind turbine in Turaif. The project, developed in partnership with GE, marked a turning point in the Kingdom's plan towards realizing the 9.5 gigawatt national renewable energy target defined in Saudi Vision 2030.Saudi Aramco’s Marine Department recently sponsored the 9th Middle East (ME) Ship Tech Conference 2016, held in Dubai. The conference brought together ship owners, operators, charterers and ship technology providers to discuss how advances in ship technology are meeting the challenges of achieving operational efficiency and sustainability for vessel owners and operators. Mohammad A. Al Sultan, acting manager of Saudi Aramco’s Marine Department, gave the opening address and welcomed delegates. In his keynote speech, he addressed Saudi Aramco’s focus on manufacturing high quality work boats, as the company owns some of the largest offshore fields and is a major offshore vessel owner, operator and charterer. Al Sultan also discussed the development of the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services at Ras Al-Khair as part of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. This new maritime facility will have an important role in supporting Saudi Aramco’s marine and offshore activities into the future. The annual conference is one of the most well-known asset management and technology development conferences in the Middle East region. This highly respected event draws in ship owners, managers, class societies, regulators and other high level industry executives that have substantial stakes in the high value assets that the shipping and offshore industry relies upon. The conference has evolved to be one of the most interactive, high-level forums where industry can discuss, debate and learn about asset developments and how these can add value in their day-to-day operations. Current shipping markets are volatile, large owners are experiencing financial difficulties, vessels are being laid up and the general economic picture is uncertain. In such conditions, those with the knowledge and capability to invest can draw a clear advantage from their competitors. As well as gaining understanding of macro-economic trends and putting these into a trade perspective, delegates at the conference had the opportunity to piece together developments that can assist in their asset performance and can influence their decision-making. With the challenges facing the markets, the conference 2016 was staged as a multi-stream event. The event allowed different sectors to benefit from more detailed discussions and debates on specific topics. Main themes included global trade patterns; smart operations/smart business; Middle East offshore market survival; changing international maritime regulations; technology, crew and safety; and Middle East shipbuilding and ship repair markets. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce hosted a business forum recently for U.S. companies to learn about opportunities to partner with Saudi Aramco and invest in the Kingdom. The forum comes at a pivotal time for the company as it supports the Kingdom’s economic development plans with emphasis on local manufacturing, workforce training and development, and more investment not only in the energy sector but across a variety of industries. These are the basic principles at the heart of the company’s localization initiative, the In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (IKTVA), which is designed to drive domestic value creation, develop a strong broad-based local contractor community, and maximize long-term economic growth and diversification to support a rapidly changing Saudi economy. Now just over the one-year anniversary since IKTVA was launched, the forum provided an opportunity for a two-way dialog between the company and current and potential U.S.-based strategic suppliers. Calling for 70% localization by 2021, the initiative recognizes the importance of supplier focused relationships and collaboration that will help achieve that goal. Addressing the 150 CEOs, vice presidents, owners, investors, and others who gathered for the event was Aramco Services Co. (ASC) president and CEO Basil Abul-Hamayel, who touched on topics such as Saudi Aramco’s need for supplies, the benefits of partnering with Aramco, and the importance of IKTVA. “In addition to becoming a supplier for Aramco, you have even more options to expand your business in Saudi Arabia and the broader Gulf region,” he said. Other ASC representatives served as forum panelists including: Saleh AlRumaih, manager of Procurement and Logistics; Sameer Yousef, supervisor of Strategic Sourcing; and Nawaf Al Ardhi, sourcing specialist. Taha Al Shareef, commercial attaché of the Royal Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Embassy, and representatives from the Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM Bank) also served as panelists. Yousef outlined the key requirements for becoming an approved supplier for Saudi Aramco and how to register through the ASC website. He also provided further details on the materials most critical to Aramco’s operations right now. Al Ardhi addressed details and the expanding opportunities for manufacturing in the Kingdom, in support of IKTVA. He highlighted some of the ways in which Aramco is supporting diversification by engaging in joint ventures with strategic partners. Al Shareef gave a presentation on Saudi Vision 2030, showcasing the Kingdom’s ambitious plan. He talked about “immense opportunities” that not only include oil and gas, but other sectors such as mining, tourism, leisure, retail, and more. He encouraged business leaders to consider investing in these growth areas, as they would benefit from new revenue streams. Representatives from EXIM Bank rounded out the presentations by addressing ways businesses could obtain financial loans and working capital for expansion into the Kingdom. “The U.S. Chamber forum provided a great opportunity for Aramco to showcase partnership opportunities, and for the Kingdom, as well, to encourage investment in its economy,” said AlRumaih. “We have seen increased engagement following the forum, and plans are underway for the U.S. chamber to host additional supplier forums next year.” Saudi Aramco’s internally developed underwater inspection robot, the Shallow Water Inspection and Monitoring Robot (SWIM-R), was recently field tested and demonstrated at the Ras Tanura West Pier with the help of the Marine Department. SWIM-R capabilities were validated by carrying out multiple inspection tasks on underwater pipelines. The robot successfully performed visual inspection, marine-life cleaning, and ultrasonic thickness readings, as well as cathodic protection voltage measurements. During the test, SWIM-R was effectively able to maneuver and navigate through currents as well as crawl on the seabed. After the field test, the Research and Development Center (R&DC) presented the technology as a part of the stage-gate review process. The technology was well-received by all gatekeepers and was unanimously voted to successfully graduate into the commercialization and deployment phase. The Marine Department showed great commitment to, and ownership of, the incoming technology by proposing to fund two additional units of SWIM-R for immediate deployment. The success of this technology highlights the strong interdepartmental collaboration and business alignment between the two departments. Moving forward, the entire project team will support the Technology Strategy and Planning Department during the deployment stage to ensure that the technology is successfully deployed in Saudi Aramco facilities and commercialized for the global market. The technology was developed by the Intelligent Systems Lab of the Oil and Gas Network Integrity Division (OGNI) at the R&DC in close collaboration and partnership with the Underwater Inspection and Repair Unit of the Industrial Services Marine Department. The project resulted in 11 inventions, including seven that are filed at the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The project team consisted of seven research and development (R&D) engineers, one engineer on assignment from the Inspection Department, and two members of the Marine Department. SWIM-R was recently presented at the Annual Technical Conference and Exhibition of the Society of Petroleum Engineers in Dubai, where it impressed many of the international attendees, who praised the technology for its value proposition and expressed their interest in adopting the compact, underwater robot that can be easily deployed in extremely shallow waters. The groundbreaking technology is the type of innovation that is key to tackling the significant challenges that Saudi Aramco faces within its wider business. In particular, the inspection of pipelines in shallow waters has previously been problematic as current inspection procedures are performed by divers who are connected to a support ship or a diving support vessel (DSV) using an umbilical cord. This cord is used for oxygen to the diver, communication to the diver, and relaying a live camera video signal. However, it is particularly difficult and sometimes impossible to navigate a DSV in shallow waters due to the risk of impact with the seabed or underwater obstacles. Therefore, alternative methods are used for shallow water pipeline inspection, including the usage of zodiacs. These methods are extremely slow as compared to inspection in deeper waters. SWIM-R enables the inspection of these shallow water pipelines safely and efficiently while drastically reducing the associated time and cost of shallow-water inspections. SWIM-R was designed, developed and field tested in less than two years, allowing for its deployment five months ahead of schedule. The robot serves as an example of successful technology created as part of the research portfolio managed by the OGNI Division at the R&DC, which is committed to reducing the cost of corrosion within the company’s facilities through innovative and fast-paced technology development while the Intelligent Systems Team within this division helps to drive this effort.   Oil and gas will continue to play a significant role in the future energy mix for decades to come as the world transitions to a sustainable energy future, president and CEO Amin Nasser told senior international government officials and business leaders at the World Economic Forum (WEF) yesterday. Speaking at one of the panel sessions under the theme “Strategic Update: The Future of Energy,” Nasser said the global energy industry is undergoing a long-term transition brought about by climate change concerns, technological advancements, and government policies. Nasser outlined several scenarios for the global energy market, concluding that renewable energy will not supplant oil and gas in the energy mix in the near future. “I agree that there is a global transformation that is currently underway, and it is putting a lot of pressure on the oil and gas industry and the petroleum industry, mainly also because of climate change and government policies and technological advancements,” he said. He identified two major energy areas where alternative energies are competing for market share — electricity generation and renewables, and light-duty transportation vehicles and electric vehicles.However, Nasser said he believed the impact on oil demand will be moderate, also noting that the oil and gas industry will need about USD 25 trillion in investments over the coming quarter century to meet demand in the International Energy Agency’s (IEA’s) New Policies Case. Nasser highlighted the need for “market certainty” to build capacity in the industry. “To build up capacity, you need certainty, and the issue is the creation of a climate of uncertainty with all of the talk about renewables and the impact of renewables on the industry. “I think hydrocarbon resources will be with us for decades. There will be an expansion needed in the sector, and there will need to be a lot of capital to meet demand predictions for 2040 and 2060. “So the question of renewables and the impact on hydrocarbon resources should not stop us from getting the right capital. Otherwise, there will be spikes in prices, and the global economy will be impacted as a result,” Nasser continued. He cited the current and projected level of market share for electric vehicles as an example of how that sector’s degree of penetration does not significantly threaten hydrocarbon resources in the near term. “There are today 1.2 million electric vehicles worldwide out of a fleet of 1.2 billion. Looking at the forecasts, by 2040, there will be approximately 150 million electric vehicles, but the fleet will have increased in number from 1.2 billion to 2 billion. So, basically there is an 8% market penetration for electric in the light vehicle industry, and the oil is not all focused on the light vehicle industry and some small part in power generation, but significantly on heavy trucks, aviation, and ships, which account for 30% of oil consumption. “Around 15% is focused on chemicals and lubes and bitumen, so yes, renewables will gain a market share over the long-term, but they will not be dominant, and it will take decades for them to replace petroleum resources.” Nasser highlighted that Saudi Arabia is blessed with a competitive advantage in terms of hydrocarbon geology and solar energy. “At Saudi Aramco, we are building our capacity in petrochemicals, in lubes. As a company, we are also taking a strong position in solar,” said Nasser. “The Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources HE Khalid A. Al-Falih has just announced USD 50 billion of investment opportunities in renewables in Saudi Arabia, and Saudi Aramco as a company is taking a strong position on renewables as well.” The WEF’s 47th annual meeting runs until January 20 with 3,000 international participants, and a program of more than 400 sessions to address strategies for greater social inclusion and human development. It is focusing on four critical leadership challenges for 2017: reimagining global cooperation, revitalizing the global economy, reforming capitalism, and preparing for what is described as the “Fourth Industrial Revolution,” where various elements (such as supercomputing, robotics, artificial intelligence, big data, 3-D printing, and biotech), are intimately linked with Saudi Aramco’s evolving operations. Nasser was speaking less than a year after Saudi Arabia launched its ambitious national roadmap — Saudi Vision 2030 — to diversify the economy and enter a new era of balanced and sustainable development. Nasser also met with President Xi Jinping of China, Chinese ministers and key officials with a group of captains of industries to discuss their ʻBelt and Roadʼ initiative, and the natural links with Vision 2030.Saudi Aramco today marked the commissioning of the Kingdom’s first wind energy turbine, providing electricity to its bulk plant facility in Turaif in northwestern Saudi Arabia.The project, developed in partnership with GE, marked a new milestone in Saudi Aramco’s plan towards realizing the 9.5 gigawatt (GW) national renewable energy target defined in Saudi Vision 2030. The commissioning event of the wind energy station was attended by Abdulkarim Ghamdi, Saudi Aramco Executive Director for Power Systems, Anne McEntee, VP & CEO GE Onshore Wind – Renewables; Ruhan Temeltas, Regional Leader GE Renewables; Zaher Ibrahim, CEO GE Oil & Gas, Saudi Arabia, and a number of local dignitaries and business leaders. For several years, Saudi Aramco has invested to develop high potential sites for wind energy in Saudi Arabia. Sites across the Kingdom have significant resource potential, and may generate some of the lowest cost electricity globally. Delivering new energy through renewables reduces the Kingdom’s greenhouse gas emissions and contributes to global climate action outlined in the Paris Climate Agreement. Domestically, committing the Kingdom to renewable energy is part of the National Transformation Plan (NTP) and Vision 2030. Through NTP, the Kingdom is targeting 3.45GW of renewable energy by 2020, on the way to 9.5GW by 2023. The Ministry of Energy is leading the launch of the National Renewable Energy Program which will be phased and systemic in its pursuit of long-term goals where Saudi Aramco is a key stakeholder in this effort. Abdulkarim Ghamdi, Saudi Aramco Executive Director for Power Systems said: “The commissioning of the first wind turbine is the start of something new in the Kingdom that Saudi Aramco is driving with our partners. Wind Turbine No. 1 in Turaif will fully meet the electricity needs for the bulk plant and even feed surplus electricity back into the national grid. Wind energy offers potential to provide new energy the Kingdom’s energy mix and enhance power generation efficiency, thus delivering on the core objectives of Vision 2030.” Zaher Ibrahim, President & CEO, GE Oil and Gas Saudi Arabia said: “We see the installation of this GE wind turbine in Turaif as a great demonstration of the long partnership we have with Saudi Aramco. Today is a significant occasion marking an exciting new era for the Kingdom and one that we are very proud to be part of. We look forward to continuing to work with our partners in the Kingdom towards the renewables goals of Saudi Vision 2030.” The Saudi Aramco-GE wind turbine demonstration project will power Saudi Aramco’s facility in Turaif, providing electricity directly to the bulk plant. One wind turbine creates enough power to supply 250 homes, can displace 19,000 barrels of oil equivalent, and generate 2.75MW, thereby reducing demand for electricity from the national grid. The wind turbine is connected to Turaif Bulk Plant’s electrical distribution system to help it reduce the amount of power purchased from the Saudi Electricity Company and to reduce the diesel currently consumed to supply power at the plant. The GE 2.75-120 wind turbine has been delivered with a desert protection package specifically designed for the Kingdom’s ‘hot & harsh’ conditions. The tower stands 85 meters high, capturing energy by blades 120 meters in diameter. The turbine’s rotor tips reach 145 meters from the ground. The turbine blades are constructed from lightweight composite materials, resembling large aerodynamic glider wings. The wind turbine project was developed by specialists from Saudi Aramco’s Power Systems, with GE selected to design, supply, and construct the demonstration project.Last week, a group of Saudi Aramco’s young professionals had the opportunity to meet and speak to Michael Bloomberg, a former mayor of New York and founder of global media empire Bloomberg LP. Bloomberg was making his first trip to the Kingdom to learn firsthand about the transformation of the country as part of Saudi Vision 2030. Visiting Saudi Aramco, which is a key component of Saudi Vision 2030, provided him with an inside look at the world’s largest integrated energy and chemicals enterprise. As part of the visit, he met with some of the company’s young professionals, engaging them in a lively discussion, fielding questions from an audience that included past and present members of the Young Leaders Advisory Board, and young entrepreneurs participating in the Wa’ed entrepreneurship program. Bloomberg’s visit was also his first to a major oil and gas company and included meetings with the company’s senior management and visits to the Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling Department, the Exploration and Petroleum Engineering Center, the Upstream Professional Development Center (UPDC), the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, and the Shaybah Production Department. The visit comes at a time of transition as Saudi Aramco moves toward a potential initial public offering and as the Kingdom maps out a National Transformation Program aligned with Saudi Vision 2030.Nearly 200 attendees from Japan’s oil industry and the GCC countries, with about 70% being female, recently gathered in Tokyo for the Friendship Committee for the Women Career Development Open Forum that was hosted by the Japan Cooperation Center, Petroleum (JCCP). JCCP is an affiliated organization of Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry that promotes technical cooperation and personnel exchanges between Japan and oil-producing countries in the downstream sectors of the oil industry. The event under the theme “Sustainable Growth in the Petroleum Industry and Women Leaders’ Business Innovation” provided an opportunity for Saudi Aramco to share its various initiatives in an effort to narrow the gender gap in the workforce through the commitment. Saudi Aramco, in 2012, established a division dedicated to women’s development and diversity that has a mission to provide various programs that develop professional careers for women and help them build leadership skills to elevate them to higher positions in coming years.   As one of the guest speakers, Huda M. Al-Ghoson, Saudi Aramco executive director of Human Resources, delivered a leader’s speech, walking the audience through a number of initiatives that Saudi Aramco has been introducing to narrow the gender gap in the workforce. One such initiative is the STEM Pipeline. The program is designed to support development of women into science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) subjects in the early years in schools and universities before they join the workforce via outreach programs.    Al-Ghoson continued on to explain that Saudi Aramco today has five programs of different levels designed for female workers from the day she begins her career with the company, young, and junior as well as up to senior level workers.   She offered and presented the “5 Cs” — commitment, competence, collaboration, contribution and character, which she considers critical for women to improve, advance, and progress in the workforce. She expounded that these actually come from her own personal experience and that they helped and still help her in pursuit of rewarding work. “While the working environment for female workers needs to be addressed at an organizational level, it is the responsibility of women themselves, to be in the driver’s seat of their career. In other words, they should participate in the initiatives proactively to narrow the gender gap while supporting other women to achieve and succeed in their aspiration,” Al-Ghoson concluded.    Al-Ghoson fielded a number of questions, including one on how the company plans to share its experience with other energy companies in the GCC. She noted that Saudi Aramco is willing to open its doors to others for them to learn, possibly inviting people outside of the company to participate in some corporate programs. For years, Saudi Aramco and King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals have worked together to protect the highly sensitive ecosystem in Manifa. A recent update session at the university shows that not only has the project maintained the integrity of the sensitive marine environment, it has actually enhanced it. Senior management from Saudi Aramco recently gathered at the Center for Environment and Water at King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM) to get a current update of environmental achievements and long-term conservation projects on the company’s flagship program for environmental stewardship. Operational since 2013, the massive offshore Manifa field has a capacity to produce 900,000 barrels per day of Arabian Heavy crude oil, which allows the Kingdom to maintain its leading position as a global energy supplier. But what makes the Manifa project so important is the careful collaboration between Saudi Aramco engineers, Saudi Aramco Environmental Protection officials, and scientists to preserve the fragile ecosystem in Manifa Bay, which is famous as one of the top fish and shrimp nurseries on the Gulf Coast. The result of that collaborative effort was an innovative plan to reach Manifa field — primarily located in shallow water — through building a world-class causeway, bridges, and laterals to connect the man-made islands. The computerized modeling of the 27 drilling islands, connected by a 42 kilometer causeway and 14 bridges to allow natural water circulation at Manifa Bay, has significantly contributed to enhance the natural flow of water, maintaining the bay as a perfect environment for shrimp and fish populations to grow. During the design, construction, and dredging activities on the man-made islands, the Manifa mega-project as a whole followed strict environmental policies and standards in all aspects related to marine measures. This included the specific placement and configuration of causeway islands to avoid affecting the existing coral reefs, while meeting the requirements of drilling and oil production. At the KFUPM event hosted by Alaadin A. Bukhari of KFUPM’s Center for Environment and Water, the Manifa program’s achievements were celebrated with a number of presentations by Saudi Aramco and KFUPM experts. Scientists from the Marine Studies Section at KFUPM’s Center for Environment and Water also presented MPD officials with its final report on the environmental impact of the project so far. “Today, we celebrate and thank all of you who contributed to the landmark of the Manifa causeway,” said Mohammed H. Al-Ghamdi, manager of the Manifa Producing Department (MPD). “Today, we can see the results. Since the construction of the causeway, marine life in Manifa has improved. Saudi Aramco’s determination to protect the environment is not lip service; it is translated into action to affirm our determination toward the Manifa marine environment. “This 10 years of partnership with the Saudi Aramco Environmental Protection Department (EPD) and King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals was established initially to protect the ecosystem through developing a creative causeway design and conducting a survey of the marine environment at Manifa Bay before and after the causeway construction,” Al-Ghamdi added. “However, we did not stop there. Instead, we capitalized on this partnership to improve and increase the density of marine life.” The results of this careful collaboration is already paying off. In multiple reports, KFUPM scientists showed how the causeway design had not only maintained but also enhanced the natural circulation of tidal waters into and out of Manifa Bay. Dissolved oxygen rates are higher than they were before construction, making those shallow waters a healthier environment for fish and shrimp larvae. Coral reefs have grown in size and seem to be spreading onto the rocks of the Manifa causeway itself. Seagrass meadows also have increased, covering 70% more area than before construction. Far from destroying the fragile ecosystem in Manifa Bay, the Manifa causeway is showing signs of improving the habitat for the larval and juvenile shrimp and fish populations that call Manifa their home.  For every presentation on environmental challenges, the 10-year trends in biodiversity at Manifa Bay, and Manifa’s long history and future potential as a nursery ground for shrimp and fish, there was an open exchange of views in question and answer sessions. What was clear to all was that Saudi Aramco’s commitment to preserving the marine environment at Manifa and other facilities was heartfelt and was a central corporate value, woven into every aspect of the way we do business. While KFUPM scientists gave presentations and presented posters, showing specific data on Manifa Bay’s recovery, post-construction, Aramcon experts laid out the broader framework of the company’s environmental stewardship, including future mitigation efforts. Khaled A. Abdulkader, a senior consultant in EPD, gave a presentation about the three layers of monitoring for compliance with strict environmental regulations, and the host of mitigation efforts made by the company — including the construction of a new fishing port at the coastal town of Dareen. Abdulkader says Saudi Aramco made many modifications to the Manifa project’s design, including removing the northwestern portion of the causeway and building bridges in other parts of the causeway to increase tidal circulation; introducing the zero discharge of drilling wastes, through cutting reinjection and “skip and ship” to safer onshore locations; and the plantation of mangrove forests, construction of shrimp nurseries, and construction of artificial reefs to encourage marine life to quickly rebound after construction was complete. The redesign of the causeway to encourage circulation was especially successful, Abdulkader said. Initial plans for a causeway would have slowed the “flush rate” of Manifa Bay to 71 days from the 17 day natural rate before construction. By opening up the bay with the causeway and bridge design, the flush rate was enhanced to 15 days. Today, monitoring data shows the actual flush rate is 11 days, much faster than the computer models had projected. “Manifa is a highly productive marine ecosystem, and that makes the project very challenging,” Abdulkader said. “It is good to get a chance to document all that was done to maintain a project as important as this is to the Kingdom’s economy, and at the same time protect the ecosystem at Manifa.”  The Saudi Aramco EXPEC Computer Center (ECC) recently received an international award from iCMG for Enterprise Architecture Excellence, 2016.    Winners in other categories included fortune 100 companies such as IBM, HP, and TATA, among others. The iCMG company is a global leader in providing architectural services.   According to Gartner, the world’s leading information technology (IT) research and advisory company, enterprise architecture (EA) is “the process of translating business vision and strategy into effective enterprise change by creating, communicating, and improving key requirements, principles, and models that describe the enterprise’s future state and enable its evolution. The scope of EA includes not only business processes, but also the people, information and technology of the enterprise, and their relationships to one another and to the external environment.”   The iCMG award jury members included industry EA thought leaders such as John Zachman (inventor of EA), Jaap Schekkerman, Ronald Ross (father of Business Rules), and several other professors and consultants.   “This is evidence that EA is positioned to transform ECC solutions through the use of best practices for the highest quality, reliable, and secure systems while maximizing efficiencies and integration by embedding reusable components throughout all ECC applications and services,” said Abdul Latif A. Al-Ghanim, general manager of the ECC.   ECC efforts have been more than award winning. The introduction of EA to the ECC organization has been a big success, dramatically increasing the quality of work and services provided to the business; such as enabling modeling of over 400 upstream business processes with associated applications and data.   IT portfolio management was another major value realized, whereby demands, data, applications, and software technologies were well classified, organized, and periodically analyzed to better manage upstream technology and data assets. In addition, EA was able to streamline and enhance ECC core activities revolving around application service creation and delivery through initiating efforts to manage software development life cycles, common application development architecture, and IT service virtualization.   One of the key EA projects that continue to play an important role in managing upstream data and controlling its management costs is the introduction of a data life cycle. This practice helps identify critical data components that led to recycling petabytes of storage and improving overall data quality.   With these tangible deliverables realized and the know-how of successfully introducing change to the organization, EA will continue to be the change agent in an agile and adaptive organization.   “ECC paved the way to smoother transformation toward fast turnaround time for our upstream customers. This was accomplished by implementing EA best practices such as reusable services, technology standardization, and software development life cycle,” said Fawzi J. Al Matar, head of the ECC Planning and Technical Division.  Saudi Aramco, along with our strategic partners, recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to establish the National Information Technology Academy.    The MoU was signed by representatives from Saudi Aramco, the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology (MCIT), the Communications and Information Technology Commission (CITC), and the Technical and Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC), with representatives from major information and communications technology (ICT) companies such as Oracle, IBM, Hewlett-Packard, Microsoft, Huawei, Wipro, SAP, Cisco, and Mobily in attendance.    The academy’s strategic objectives are aligned with those of the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 — developing the IT sector and a digital economy, increasing local workforce skills, equipping citizens with competencies that will meet the future needs of the labor market, and increasing female participation in the workforce.    The academy will invest in Saudi human capital by equipping young Saudis with market relevant ICT skills, bridging the skills gap, and developing a “job-ready” talent pool. Its curriculum will focus on technical and professional skills, as well as address emerging technologies that are aligned with market needs where students are “trained to hire.”   The academy’s operating model will offer three streams:    A key component of the academy’s operating model is the use of online and virtual technologies to support distance learning, thereby expanding outreach to the furthest regions of the Kingdom and allowing students to become active participants in the learning process.   The academy’s vision is to build capacity that will increase Saudization in the ICT local market by bridging the skills gap between academia and the industry.   Establishing strategic partnerships with stakeholders and major sector companies, Saudi Aramco has established 11 specialized academies across various disciplines that include drilling, construction, inspection, and industrial training.    These academies have more than 8,000 Saudi students who are all sponsored by companies — Saudi Aramco contractors, vendors, and suppliers — which is the model that the National IT Academy will apply.   Yousef A. Al Ulyan, Information Technology executive director at Saudi Aramco, said the establishment of the academy will require active participation and commitment from key players in the ICT sector.    “Today, we have among us leaders in the ICT market who come with a strong corporate social responsibility. Through strategic partnerships and collective efforts, we will effectively enable the academy to meet its objectives and bridge gaps where approximately 35% of the ICT labor market is missed — primarily for not having the right skill mix in the ICT workforce,” Al Ulyan said.   Nabil K. Al Dabal, general manager of Training and Development (T&D) at Saudi Aramco, highlighted the benefits of the Academy.   “The National IT Academy facilitates the creation of a thriving, diversified economy that will provide higher economic profits and ample opportunities for higher education, training and development, and entrepreneurship,” he said, noting that this will be the 12th such academy established by T&D and that the organization has a goal of establishing a total of 25 by 2025.   “After securing stakeholder and partnership alignment, a board of trustees and a tech steering committee will be established. The board will look into developing an academy charter and establishing a legal entity,” Al Dabal said.   Next year, the board will approve the facilities, acquire, and install the necessary equipment, partner with training service providers, establish organizational structure, and select and enroll trainees. The academy is working to admit 700 ICT students by the end of the third quarter of 2017. Remarks by Amin H. Nasser, president & CEO, Saudi Aramco. Pak Dwi, president and CEO, Pertamina; ladies and gentlemen: assalamulaikum, selamat pagi and good morning. I would like to say a special thanks to Saudi Arabia’s ambassador to Indonesia, H.E. Osamah Al-Shuibi, for joining us here today. I am glad to be back in Jakarta to renew our discussion of the proposed Cilacap Refinery joint venture development agreement. When we met in Cilacap in late 2015 for the Heads of Agreement signing, we celebrated the mutual commitment of Saudi Aramco and Pertamina to take our longstanding relationship to a new level of cooperation. And today, I am here to reiterate our continued commitment to Indonesia, both through the Cilacap upgrade and other potential downstream opportunities with Pertamina. Being Southeast Asia’s largest economy, Indonesia is predicted to transform from the world’s sixteenth (16th)-largest economy today to the tenth (10th) largest by 2030. And it’s worth noting that since we last met in November 2015 in Cilacap, Indonesia has recorded its strongest growth in 10 quarters. As Indonesia transforms to be a major global player, similarly, Saudi Arabia’s government is embarking on a major economic transformation program called Saudi Vision 2030. I am sure all of us here clearly know that achieving success in today’s global context requires significant investments in the human capital, infrastructure and energy sectors. Even more important, given today’s global landscape, I believe close cooperation is needed to help one another achieve success through partnerships such as what we are witnessing between Pertamina and Saudi Aramco. Saudi Aramco is ready to support Indonesia’s growth and development with significant resources and capital in the domestic refining and petrochemicals sector, which needs to expand to meet the aspirations of its 250 million people for higher living standards. The Cilacap refinery is expected to be central to meeting growing demand for refined products, and similarly by the other refineries in Sumatra. The Cilacap upgrading project is ambitious, and Saudi Aramco is uniquely positioned to provide reliable feedstock, scale, technology, project execution and capital to our partnership. Yet there’s a further dimension to our partnership, and that is the rich history and heritage that Indonesia and Saudi Arabia have in common. I believe that these commonalities make us natural partners, and the mutual appreciation and respect enriches our business cooperation. The agreement we sign today also speaks to this commitment. Completing the agreement today on the basis of key business principles will guide and optimize this multi-billion-dollar investment. Saudi Aramco is a partner focused on the long term, and our investments are reflected in similar undertakings with S-Oil in Korea, Showa Shell in Japan, Fujian Refining in China, and Motiva in the United States. With its stable growth, Indonesia is taking remarkable strides to become a global player – and Saudi Aramco is committed to partnering with Pertamina to help meet Indonesia’s rising energy needs. Through the refining investments I mentioned earlier, Saudi Aramco has played a direct role in contributing to energy security in Japan, Korea, China and the United States, and partnering with Pertamina likewise provides Indonesia with the energy the country’s ambitious economic development agenda requires. And beyond this proposed joint venture, we are interested in other downstream value chain investment opportunities that can strengthen our mutually beneficial ties. Together with our combined strengths, I believe we can achieve much more. Terima kasih and thank you.  Saudi Aramco, the world’s leading integrated energy and petrochemicals enterprise, and PT Pertamina, Indonesia’s state oil and gas company, signed a Joint Venture Development Agreement (JVDA) today, marking a key milestone to enable further progress to jointly own, upgrade and operate the Cilacap Refinery in central Java, Indonesia. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin Nasser and Pertamina President-Director and CEO Dwi Soetjipto signed the agreement today at Pertamina’s headquarters in Jakarta. In November 2015, both companies signed a heads of agreement (HoA) and today’s JVDA will allow for the next development phase of the project to move forward. “Indonesia’s growth trajectory is truly remarkable with an ambitious economic agenda underscored by the government’s reforms to increase investments in the infrastructure and energy sectors,” Saudi Aramco president and CEO Nasser said. “Through an outlay of significant capital investments and the reliable supply of competitive feedstock, today’s agreement with Pertamina enables Saudi Aramco to potentially play a bigger role in meeting the rising energy needs of one of the world’s fastest developing economies,” he added. “The agreement is representing both company’s strong commitment in developing and strengthening the energy infrastructure throughout the country, especially in refinery projects, that align Pertamina’s five strategic pillars. Upgrading and expansion of Cilacap Refinery will help Pertamina to enhance its downstream competitiveness with higher valuable and environmental friendly products,” Dwi Soetjipto said. The Cilacap refinery is part of Pertamina’s Refinery Development Master Plan (RDMP) and its capacity is planned for an expansion to 400,000 barrels per day and it is designed to process Arabian crude supplied by Saudi Aramco. It will also produce refined products that meet Euro V specifications, basic petrochemicals, and Group II base oil for lubricants. In addition to meeting rising fuel demand, the partnership between Pertamina and Saudi Aramco will enhance the competitiveness of Indonesia’s refineries and contribute to improved energy security. Saudi Aramco and Pertamina agreed on the ownership structure of the upgraded Cilacap refinery, where Pertamina will hold a 55 percent stake and Saudi Aramco will own the balance 45 percent. To date, the upgraded refinery configuration has been completed and the process to select technology licensors will start soon with the Basic Engineering Design work targeted for completion in the first quarter of 2017. Signing this agreement paves the way for the upgraded project to move to the Front End Engineering Design (FEED) phase in the second quarter 2017 while project startup is targeted in 2021.Roads of Arabia: Archeological Treasures of Saudi Arabia’ exhibition, a joint initiative of Saudi Aramco’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture and the Saudi Commission for Tourism and National Heritage (SCTNH), was inaugurated today at the National Museum of China in the Chinese Capital, Beijing. The inauguration was attended by HRH Prince Sultan bin Salman Al Saud, President of the SCTNH, H.E. Mr. Luo Shugang, China’s Minister of Culture, Nasser A. Al-Nafisee, Saudi Aramco Vice President, Corporate Affairs, and several diplomatic and cultural dignitaries. Featuring important archaeological relics illustrating the depth of the Arab civilization and its history of more than one million years, the exhibition includes more than 400 archaeological pieces selected from the National Museum in Riyadh, the King Saud University Museum, and other museums. The artifacts cover the prehistoric and pre-Islamic periods, the early, middle, and late Arabian kingdoms and civilizations, and the Islamic period until the establishment of the Kingdom throughout its three stages until the reign of King Abdulaziz. Speaking at the inauguration ceremony, Saudi Aramco's VP Corporate Affairs, Nasser Al-Nafisee, highlighted the depth of the Saudi Arabian Peninsula’s heritage. He said that thanks to its location on the old Silk Road, the Arabian Peninsula always held special importance for the Chinese people. “Commercial and cultural exchanges between our ancestors played an important role in shaping the world as we know today,” he said. Al-Nafisee continued: "This dynamic relationship continues today, and Saudi Arabia, represented by Saudi Aramco, is China’s primary energy supplier, contributing to China’s economic development and prosperity. Our historically-close ties are not confined to the supply of crude oil or the exchange of commodities only but extends to our common aspirations in connection to the Silk Road Economic Belt and the overall development of the Chinese and Saudi peoples, who are our most precious resource.” The exhibition was displayed in Saudi Arabia in November 2016 as part of the inauguration of the Dhahran-based King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, when the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman ibn Abdulaziz, launched the Asian tour of the Archaeological Masterpieces of Saudi Arabia Exhibition. The exhibition will reside at the National Museum of China for three months, then will travel to South Korea and Japan. Saudi Aramco is sponsoring the Exhibition's Asian tour. The exhibition’s Asian tour is in line with the Kingdom's efforts to bolster ties and enhance cultural communication with the Far East. It came as result of the visit to China and Japan earlier this year by HRH Mohammed bin Salman, Deputy Crown Prince. Saudi Aramco's sponsorship of the exhibition illustrates its commitment to the preservation of the Kingdom's heritage as outlined in Vision 2030. With support from SCTNH under the Archaeological Relics Recovery Project, the Company helped recover many archaeological relics discovered by former Saudi Aramco expatriate employees. The exhibition aims to educate the world on the civilization and history of the Arabian Peninsula through historical treasures that embody the cultural dimensions of the region, and to enhance the cultural communication between the peoples of the world. The ‘Roads of Arabia: Archaeological Masterpieces of Saudi Arabia’ exhibition tour was initiated by Saudi Aramco’s King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture and SCTNH in 2012, when the Exhibition’s first tour took place in the United States and Europe.   The Young Leaders Advisory Board (YLAB) recently represented Saudi Aramco at the MiSK Global Forum (MGF). The forum is an initiative to empower Saudi youth and promote their contribution to Saudi Vision 2030.    The two-day forum focused on entrepreneurship and innovation in the areas of art, academia, education, literacy, civil society, entertainment, government and international organizations, sports, media, science, and technology. High-achievers and influencers (ages 18-35) engaged in dialog with 130 subject-matter experts, leaders, and innovators to define their future.   Through knowledge-exchange sessions, panel discussions, workshops, and other networking opportunities, the forum serves as a platform to empower the leaders of tomorrow by inspiring boundless innovation, nurturing the creative potential that is needed to innovate, driving growth and job creation globally, and in the process, shaping youth into truly global citizens. YLAB is a sounding board for Saudi Aramco’s management through its transformation — providing solutions to drive the company toward achieving its strategic intent. YLAB’s mission is to engage and inspire Saudi Aramco’s young employees. Serving as an active resource, it provides solutions that drive the strategic intent of the company and facilitates two-way communication between the company’s young employees and corporate management. Created in 2011, YLAB is a pioneer initiative undertaken by Saudi Aramco to engage our young employees and shape the company’s future.  Mentorship programs around the world have been proven to be an effective way to transfer knowledge from one individual to another.    Passing on knowledge is particularly important here at Saudi Aramco. With 54% of our employees under the age of 35, and 28% between the ages of 45-60, the need to retain best practices is imperative. Mentorship relationships pass on company knowledge, culture, and best practices, along with creating a higher job satisfaction for both mentor and mentee.   Employees in the early stages of their career seek mentors to better understand company culture. Mentorships help keep employees at the beginning of their career happy while also producing company loyalty. The extra feedback and people conversations add a new dimension to both the mentee and mentor’s career.   In alignment with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030, the Women Development and Diversity Division (WD&DD) here at Saudi Aramco has created a pipeline to assist in developing the women at Saudi Aramco. HRH Mohammad bin Salman bin ‘Abd al-‘Aziz Al-Sa’ud, President of the Council of Economic and Development Affairs, said it best in the 2030 vision: “Our real wealth lies in the ambition of our people and the potential of our younger generation.”    The WD&DD Mentorship Program connects female colleagues with experienced mentors to help build and develop their professional skills, share best practices, set goals, and enhance their network. Studies show that mentoring and networking opportunities help women advance more quickly and effectively in business.    The program fuels the pipeline for women to grow professionally within their career and work toward leadership positions. Created in 2015, the program was designed to support women with an encouraging and experienced mentor. Over the past two years, the program has tweaked and refined its agenda, growing extensively as a result. It now stands as one of the most highly sought-after programs for professionals in Saudi Aramco.   In early 2015, the Mentorship Program was instituted with 12 mentors and 12 mentees. At the time, few people were willing to give their time to be a mentor, and mentees were hesitant to join due to the program’s amateur status.    During the pilot project, participants noted they needed more time to create genuine connections. The program was then extended from its original six-month duration to a full year. Over the past two years, WD&DD has blazed a trail toward lifelong relationships.    The Mentorship Program’s Wave 6 began earlier this month and the team is preparing for Wave 7 from Jan. 16 to Feb. 13. Having trained and served 46 mentees with 46 willing mentors in less than 18 months and with 10 to15 partnerships per wave, WD&DD hopes to foster 160 relationships by the end of 2017.   Benefits for mentees are quite clear for most to see, but many people do not consider how advantageous a mentorship is to the mentor. Mentors receive training on how to identify the differences between coaching and mentoring, understanding the roles of a mentor, and how to build high-trust relationships. In the program, mentors gain new skills through training and networking with different generations and career fields. Similar to mentees, mentors have expressed many benefits along with being inspired and reinvigorated in their career path.    Van Rooyen said, “This program has also benefited me, as I now feel re-energized and have a positive outlook on not only Maiss Hamad’s future but also how I can continue to grow from this experience.” Executives from Saudi Aramco’s Power Systems and General Electric (NYSE: GE) gathered in Dhahran recently to celebrate the delivery of the first wind turbine in Saudi Arabia, marking a historic milestone for renewable energy in the Kingdom. Supplied by GE, the 2.75-120 wind turbine will provide power to Saudi Aramco’s Bulk Plant located in Turaif, in northwest Saudi Arabia. The demonstration project has been developed by Saudi Aramco in partnership with GE to highlight the viability of deploying wind power in the Kingdom. Since the inception of its Renewable Energy team in 2010, Saudi Aramco has been actively pursuing opportunities in support of the Kingdom’s goal for the integration of renewable energy in the energy mix. In 2012, Saudi Aramco commenced an extensive resource measurement program that confirmed the Kingdom’s exceptional wind resource as perhaps one of the best in the region. Wind energy will become a key source of power under the National Renewables Program, which will deliver a combined 9,500 Mega Watts to the Kingdom from wind and solar energy by 2023. Abdulkarim Al Ghamdi, Saudi Aramco’s Executive Head for Power Systems said: “Saudi Aramco is actively promoting the reduction of energy intensity across the Kingdom by advocating responsible policies, awareness, and energy innovation. This milestone has been made possible with the skills and knowledge Saudi Aramco has attained over decades as the Kingdom’s reliable supplier of energy and those of our partner, GE, as a wind industry leader.” Turaif was selected by Saudi Aramco from four potential sites, due to its good wind resource, ease of access, and proximity to power connection. The wind turbine will generate 2.75 Mega Watts of power at its peak, sufficient energy to sustain around 250 Saudi households. This provides the company the opportunity to reduce burning of diesel for power generation by 18,600 barrels of oil equivalent per year. Hisham Albahkali, GE’s President & CEO for Saudi Arabia and Bahrain, said: “With the arrival of the first GE wind turbine in the Kingdom, we are demonstrating our strong commitment to support the aim of diversifying the energy mix. This is a momentous occasion as it highlights that wind energy generation in the Kingdom is ‘real’ and heralds a new era of renewable energy that clearly shows to the world that action is being taken to support the renewable goals of Saudi Vision 2030.” Once commissioned in January 2017 the wind turbine will present a striking landmark on the Turaif skyline. The tips of the blades will reach a height of 145 meters, or almost half the height of Riyadh’s Kingdom Tower. The diameter of the wind turbine rotor blades will dwarf the span of the World’s largest passenger jet. At 120 meters, the rotor diameter is 50% wider than the wing span of an Airbus 380. The wind turbine and its control system have been specifically designed by GE to minimize the potential noise emitted from the rotor blades, the tips of which can travel at one third the speed of sound. GE’s global wind footprint extends to more than 35 countries with over 50,000 Mega Watts of onshore wind turbines installed across the globe. GE has leveraged this experience to enhance the design of the wind turbine for this project to competently and reliably operate in high temperature, high dust environment within the Kingdom. The wind turbine which arrived to Jubail port in October, will be transported on a twelve vehicle convoy from Dammam to Turaif. The construction of the foundations for the turbine are underway and the first electricity is expected to be supplied to the Saudi Aramco bulk plant once commissioning of the wind turbine is completed in January 2017.Saudi Aramco today broke ground on the construction of a brand new, state-of-the-art research center, at King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (KAUST), with an expected completion date of mid-2019.
 The ground breaking ceremony was attended by H.E. Ali I. Al Naimi, former Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources and Chairman of KAUST Board of Trustees; H.E. Khalid Al Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, Chairman of Saudi Aramco and Vice-Chairman of KAUST Board of Trustees; Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco; Prof. Jean-Lou Chameau, KAUST President; and several government, academic and business dignitaries. H.E. Al Falih said: “Saudi Aramco and KAUST are leaders in technology development domestically and internationally. Their unique roles in developing innovative and original research is essential to the future success of the energy industry in Saudi Arabia. Their future joint research and development efforts, through collaboration and partnership, will help achieve the Kingdom’s strategic energy objectives and create business value in pursuit of the national objective of transition to a knowledge society, as enunciated in Vision 2030.” “The groundbreaking marks a major milestone in the successful partnership between Saudi Aramco and King Abdullah University of Science & Technology, for the benefit of the nation as a whole,” said Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser. “Our relationship started when KAUST was just an idea and today, it has grown, literally from the ground up. A number of highly promising technologies have been produced here, such as the Saudi Aramco inspection robots, and research here has contributed to many patents.” The facility will allow Saudi Aramco to leverage its unique position within the R&D ecosystem at KAUST to accelerate the implementation of the company’s Technology Strategy. The facility will include laboratories and offices to support research in the areas of chemicals, intelligent systems, solar energy, reservoir engineering, computational modeling, and environmental protection. “At KAUST, we are committed to advancing science, innovation and technology through distinctive and collaborative research, which relies upon the nurturing of ideas and talent,” said KAUST President Jean-Lou Chameau. “Partnering with Saudi Aramco on this new center is the latest of a series of shared successes to foster the transition to an innovation-driven economy sustained by intellectual capital and scientific discovery.” The new center will be an 11,300 square meter research facility, housing 132 scientists and researchers, aimed at supporting Saudi Aramco’s upstream and downstream research domains as well as environmental protection research efforts. “This new facility is about expanding our research needs as a business. As part of our new technology strategy we are looking to enable our research domains through capitalizing on the world-renowned scientists, exceptional facilities, and international network of academic institutions affiliated with KAUST,” said Saudi Aramco Chief Technology Officer Ahmad Khowaiter. The facility is intended to integrate with the University community and foster strong networks with other leading R&D organizations focused on solar energy, chemicals, fuel technology, robotics, hydrocarbon recovery, computational modeling and the marine environment. “We achieved this year a leading position in creativity among energy companies. To reach our aspiration of global leadership in energy-related technology development and deployment, Saudi Aramco has adopted an accelerated strategy to expand its global R&D footprint with further collaborations in academia and industry,” said Nasser. “These partnerships, including the one with KAUST, will be crucial to the company and national agenda for the next 15 years, and they are seen as much needed enablers to accelerate the successful delivery of technologies across the entire value chain of the energy industry.”
In the sand dunes of Shaybah, deep in the Rub’ al-Khali (the Empty Quarter), Saudi Aramco’s Board of Directors last week inaugurated a facility of an altogether different kind. The 637 square kilometer Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary is the result of a joint effort between Saudi Aramco’s Shaybah Producing Department and the Environmental Protection Department. Arabian Extra Light oil was first discovered at Shaybah in 1968. Shaybah’s proven reserves are estimated at approximately 14.3 billion barrels of oil and approximately 25 trillion cubic feet of gas. But there are very few places in the world where oil operations could be more difficult than Shaybah, and no field development took place for three decades.

The field project is a testament to the abilities of Saudi Aramco to complete complex industrial projects despite the challenges of logistics, terrain, climate and complexity.  The Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary initiative bears testimony to the company’s commitment to care for the environment wherever it operates. Located adjacent to Saudi Aramco’s mega-facilities in the area, the fenced sanctuary protects dozens of native plant and animal species.

Further, Saudi Aramco has reintroduced three species that historically have inhabited areas around Shaybah: Arabian oryx, Arabian sand gazelles, and ostriches.

For the first time in decades, these majestic animals will once again grace the red sands of the Rub’ al-Khali. The animals had been decimated by hunters across their range. The last wild ostrich in Arabia was killed in 1939. The numbers of Arabian sand gazelle plummeted. Similarly, by 1970 the Arabian oryx was almost extinct.   In the 1970s, the last few surviving oryx were rescued and sent to the United States for an intensive breeding program. Over subsequent years they were released back into reserves across the Arabian Peninsula.

Now the deserts around Shaybah once again serve as their home.The Shaybah Wildlife Sanctuary is further proof that oil and gas operations and environmental protection can exist hand in hand.  Saudi Aramco signed two landmark agreements with Nabors Industries Ltd.(“Nabors”) and Rowan Companies plc (“Rowan”), to create two new national champions focused on onshore and offshore drilling. The new joint ventures mark a major milestone towards the development of a competitive Saudi energy sector, as encapsulated in the company’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) program and Saudi Vision 2030. Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO said: “We look forward to successful partnerships with Nabors and Rowan to drive a best-in-class drilling industry, provide opportunities to manage drilling costs through increased collaboration, drive localization of the energy value chain, and enhance in-Kingdom technical capabilities.” “These initiatives represent an unprecedented new large scale model of collaboration, with substantial value creation for both Saudi Aramco and its partners through a closer working relationship. These investments are part of a wider program to leverage our core activities, to help enable the sustainable development of the Kingdom’s economy through diversification, and the development of an internationally competitive and dynamic local energy sector, supported by national champions.” The joint ventures with Nabors and Rowan were announced as part of Saudi Aramco’s iktva Forum 2016, which marks its one year anniversary. In December 2015, Saudi Aramco launched iktva, a major localization initiative designed to drive domestic value creation and maximize long-term economic growth, diversification, job creation and workforce development, to support a rapidly changing Saudi economy. Iktva aims to achieve 70% localization of all spending on goods and services, and to enable 30% export of Saudi energy sector products by 2021. The onshore and offshore drilling Joint ventures will invest $6bn to $7bn to purchase onshore rigs and offshore jackups, manufactured in Saudi Arabia by Saudi Aramco manufacturing joint ventures, which are in the process of being setup. The Joint ventures will create an additional 5,000 jobs with an aim to achieve 80% Saudization levels. It is anticipated that the Joint ventures will commence operations in the second quarter of 2017. The onshore joint venture will combine Nabors and Saudi Aramco’s existing onshore drilling operations in Saudi Arabia, with the joint venture covering segments of our current and future onshore oil and gas fields in the Kingdom. It will initially own 15 contributed rigs (five from Saudi Aramco and 10 from Nabors) and manage the remaining Nabors-owned rigs currently in Saudi Arabia, for a total fleet of 41 rigs. The total value of initial contributions from both partners through domestic operations, assets, equipment and capital is estimated at over $1 billion dollars. In addition, the joint venture has committed to a substantial order of newbuild rigs over a 10-year period from an in-Kingdom manufacturing joint venture. The offshore joint venture will combine Rowan and Saudi Aramco’s existing offshore drilling operations in Saudi Arabia, with the joint venture covering segments of our current and future offshore oil and gas fields in the Kingdom. It will initially own 7 contributed jack-up rigs (two from Saudi Aramco and five from Rowan) and will manage an additional four Rowan owned jack-ups currently in Saudi Arabia. The total value of initial contributions from both partners through domestic operations, assets, equipment and capital is estimated at over $1.2 billion dollars. In addition, the offshore joint venture has similarly committed to acquire and operate newbuild jack-ups over a 10-year period from an in-Kingdom Maritime complex. With the growing ecological challenges facing all countries around the world today, environmental awareness is an education tool of great importance. Awareness campaigns are a critical step in helping the movement to restore natural resources and reduce environmental footprints.    At Saudi Aramco, one approach embraced by the Environmental Protection Department (EPD) involves the launch of environmental awareness campaigns in conjunction with internationally observed environmental days celebrated around the world. These events focus on various themes.   In 2016, EPD and the Public Relations Department organized interactive exhibits in three different locations around the Kingdom, focusing on a variety of environmental themes and topics, targeting families by utilizing 4-D multimedia technology to convey messages regarding water importance, water scarcity, and water resources. These tools succeed by instilling positive behaviors needed to conserve water, electricity, and other aspects of environmental protection in daily activities.    The first campaign was on World Water Day in March of 2016 in al-Khobar, featuring the theme “Water Conservation.” The event aligned with the Kingdom’s efforts to educate the public on water conservation and the urgent need to control water consumption, especially in a country such as Saudi Arabia that has limited hydrological resources.   A second water conservation event took place in al-Hasa with a campaign that observed World Environment Day with an event in al-Madinah city. World Environment Day is celebrated every year on June 5 around the world, and Saudi Arabia is no exception. This day is celebrated to raise awareness of the global need to take positive environmental action. The campaign and exhibit is run by the United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) and focuses on different environmental topics each year.   Saudi Aramco’s World Environment Day exhibit welcomed about 10,000 people of all ages to learn how their daily approach to water usage can help save the planet. The campaign consisted of various interactive display sections (Annual Renewable Freshwater Resources of Saudi Arabia and Water Scarcity, Saudi Arabia National Water Challenge, Water Conservation Display Tools, Water Conservation Games, Zero Escape, and Recommendations for Kitchen Water Conservation) — all of which were designed to appealed to both children and adults, including a 4-D movie titled “Masah.”   Separately, employees at Saudi Aramco facilities often arrange their own awareness events throughout the year, both inside and outside of the company, with the support of EPD. The department supplies materials and subject matter experts who participate in the events and provide technical presentations and webinars.    Environmental awareness events are spread out across the year, and they are a part of Saudi Aramco’s corporate social responsibility. They serve as one of the tools to build positive behaviors toward the surrounding environment, among employees and the public, and the campaigns reinforce the need to conserve all of the Kingdom’s natural resources.  Keynote Address by Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO, iktva forum 2016   Your Royal Highness, Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, good morning.    As I just said in Arabic, we are once again honored that His Royal Highness, the Amir of the Eastern Province, Prince Saud bin Naif bin Abdulaziz, could grace us with his presence.   We are also delighted that His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih – the Minister for Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources – could join us.    Most of all, I would like to welcome all the business people here today who have come from near and far, bringing your diverse strengths to the table.    You, our partners, are the lifeblood of iktva.   Your success is our success.   Of course, since iktva was launched 12 months ago, the context has only become more challenging.    First, the oil market remained weak and volatile, causing further project deferments or cancelations, with near- and long-term consequences.    Second, the long-term trend of costs for the industry continues to rise (despite the recent drop resulting from reduced activity).    Third, while maximizing shareholder value became even more critical for us at Saudi Aramco, as the launch of Saudi Vision 2030 made it crystal clear.   In response, we have renewed our focus on excellence in every aspect of our business.    We have enhanced the efficiency and reliability of our supply chain and procurement mechanisms, and ikvta is now a key driver.   And the pioneering aspect of iktva is something we take very seriously at Saudi Aramco.    Because diversifying the economy, growing the private sector, increasing energy sector efficiency through localization, and privatizing major state enterprises are integral to Vision 2030.    In turn, these strategic goals will drive exports and create employment for our youth.    All these priorities are fundamental to anchor projects like the Fadhili Gas Project, the Energy Industrial City, and the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries and Services.    These are massive investments that in some cases will create completely new industries here, and will need completely new, localized supply chains.    So, yes, the short-term challenges for iktva have increased.    But the opportunities to make iktva a long-term win-win have undoubtedly increased as well.   Of course, some issues are more pressing than others.   When people ask what drives us most about iktva, it is creating the building blocks for a thriving and competitive Saudi energy sector.   Because doing so will help to create half a million direct and indirect jobs for talented young Saudi men and women over the long-term.    So building the enabling ecosystems to invest in that sustainable talent pipeline is one of our highest priorities.   And some amazing things have already happened.   In partnership with TVTC, 12 national training centers are now operational Kingdom-wide, which will increase to 28 by 2030.    Between them, these centers will have the capacity to graduate up to 360,000 young trainees in a wide range of disciplines.    Elsewhere, Third Party certification of the iktva baseline for our top 100 suppliers has also been completed.    And since June 28, when it became a formal part of our procurement process, I am proud to announce that iktva has been embedded in over 60 billion riyals’ worth of contracts.   On the supplier side, I know that many of you have totally re-written your business plans to reflect the new requirements for doing business with us.    For the first time, major suppliers are asking their supply chains for their iktva percentages.   And most pleasing of all, our local manufacturing share has reached 10 billion riyals, or 43%, which is an increase of 16% on 2015, and represents the highest level of local content in the Company’s history.    We are proud to celebrate your efforts later with the first ever iktva Excellence Awards.   Of course, our journey has only just begun.   Because everyone has gaps to bridge by delivering true local content in the Kingdom, not just final assembly lines.   We want true value add, not numbers that hide the true position.    Additionally, with the firm foundations now in place, we must all now concentrate on the finer aspects of the program.    And I also encourage you to regionalize your R&D here in the Kingdom, as several have done at Dhahran Techno Valley, for example.    If we can do this – driven by the high and growing demand for your products and services in the Kingdom and the region – we will all have a much more responsive, efficient, and reliable holistic system.   Ladies and Gentlemen, last year Saudi Aramco called for a new way of doing business, and we have shown you we are serious.    Many of you have answered with action as well as words.   We know that the market is more challenging.   But a significant growth in our oil and gas activities means we also remain committed to procuring goods and services worth more than 1 trillion riyals over the next decade.   So there are vast opportunities for all our partners by ensuring that 70 percent of those riyals are adding value in the Kingdom by 2021.    But there is an even more powerful incentive to get iktva right.    Talented Saudi men and women are passionate about making a difference to their country – in tough times and often in tough places.    Tough times don’t last; but talented, passionate, and tough people do.    And, with your help, this priceless resource can be the lifeblood of our nation’s transformation. Thank you. The two projects are among the biggest in their industries worldwide, will further stimulate Saudi Arabia’s economic growth, and will create investment and job opportunities in line with Saudi Vision 2030. The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud today inaugurated the Sadara Chemical Company (Sadara) and the Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Co. (SATORP). The two projects are among the largest facilities in the refining and petrochemicals industries that support the objectives of Saudi Vision 2030. The Vision aims to create new industries that will help provide new job opportunities for Saudis, as well as attract foreign investment to the Kingdom. Sadara and SATORP are aligned with these objectives and are the result of successful partnerships between Saudi Aramco and two global companies—The Dow Chemical Company and Total—which are leaders in their respective areas of business. His Excellency Khalid Al Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Chairman of Saudi Aramco said: “Sadara and Satorp represents a bold undertaking for Saudi Aramco and its respective partners, Dow Chemical and Total. It is a major driver in achieving our goals of greater integration and value addition. Sadara and Satorp represents the concrete realization of our distinct yet complementary corporate visions - it is one way in which Saudi Aramco is helping to deliver on its abiding commitment to the Kingdom.” The Sadara project is the largest integrated chemicals complex in the world to be built in one phase. It is a joint venture between Saudi Aramco and The Dow Chemical Company in Jubail Industrial City in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia. The first phase commenced operations in 2015, and the remaining operating units are scheduled for completion by the end of 2016. The production capacity is more than three million tons of various plastics and chemicals product annually. Amin Nasser, president & CEO of Saudi Aramco, said: “Sadara is a huge testament to the power of partnership. We have faced many challenges over the years – complex technological challenges, economic uncertainty - but both parent companies stood firm to make Sadara a reality. The Sadara project contributes to the development of the manufacturing and the technology industries in the Kingdom, and will have a great impact on the economy, directly and indirectly.” The foreign direct investment used to establish Sadara is the largest in the Saudi petrochemicals industry. The company is the cornerstone of Saudi Aramco’s strategy to achieve integration in processing and refining to produce high value chemicals and benefit all stakeholders. The partnership with Dow Chemical allows Saudi Aramco to unleash its full potential in chemicals and to benefit from innovative technologies in producing high value chemicals never before produced in the Kingdom. The refining, processing and marketing projects will help Saudi Aramco achieve the maximum value possible from hydrocarbons in the Kingdom and establish new industries to create more jobs for Saudis. Through 14 newly introduced technologies, the project ushers the Kingdom into a new age of economic diversification, new products and job opportunities. Sadara is the first chemicals complex in the GCC region that uses naphtha as feedstock. The complex has a unit to crack naphtha that can process 85 million standard square feet of ethane and 53,000 barrels per day of naphtha as a feedstock to produce three million tons of high value and high performance plastics annually. Once fully operational at maximum capacity, the project will employ more than 4,000 people. In addition, the PlasChem Park, a world-class industrial park for chemical and conversion industries created by a collaboration between Sadara and the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu, will create 15,000 direct and indirect job opportunities for Saudis in Jubail alone. The Saudi Aramco Total Refining and Petrochemical Co. (SATORP), a joint venture between Saudi Aramco and Total in Jubail, will support Saudi Aramco’s efforts to expand the value chain and achieve maximum value from the Kingdom’s resources. It can process 400,000 barrels of heavy Arabian crude daily into low-sulfur gasoline, diesel and jets fuel that comply with the standards in the United States, Europe and Japan. It also produces more than one million tons of paraxylene, benzene, sulfur and pure petroleum coke that fuels cement plants and electric power stations. President and CEO of Saudi Aramco, Amin Nasser, stressed the importance of projects such as SATORP to further stimulate the Kingdom’s economy. “The Kingdom will benefit from the commercial activities of SATORP. It will have a Kingdom-wide effect, and SATORP will provide the additional boost for Saudi Aramco to become a fully integrated energy and chemicals leader which augurs well for its larger portfolio diversification agenda.” This joint venture will create approximately 5,700 new direct and indirect jobs and will serve Saudi Aramco’s vision to become among the world’s top three refiners. The venture showcases the positive impact of foreign direct investments on the Saudi economy. The construction of the project involved 45,000 workers with 80% of the work performed by local subcontractors with a Saudization rate of 65%. Complex is the largest of its kind in the region in terms of service capacity, set to make Saudi Arabia a strategic maritime logistics hub The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud laid the cornerstone of the King Salman International Complex for Maritime Industries & Services, near Jubail in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia, which was named in his honor during the groundbreaking ceremony. The complex is a commercial maritime project that complements the growth of the Saudi energy industry and helps to meet the development, localization and diversification objectives outlined by Saudi Vision 2030.   The development of the complex will start with a maritime yard as an anchor project to be completed in 2021. It will be managed and maintained by Saudi Aramco’s proposed joint venture with The National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia (Bahri), Hyundai Heavy Industries Co, and Lamprell PLC. The facility will offer quality, efficiency and economies of scale, and when completed it will offer vessel and rig build, maintenance, repair and overhaul services. The project will comply with all of the Saudi government’s environmental and sustainability requirements.   By 2030, the complex is set to contribute approximately 64 billion Saudi Riyals to the Kingdom’s GDP per year, which will reduce maritime-related imports by 45 billion Saudi Riyals and create more than 80,000 job opportunities by 2030.   His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Chairman of Saudi Aramco said: “Today marks a groundbreaking example of well-studied efforts towards the diversification of economy with the inauguration of the King Salman International Maritime Complex; such diversification is achieved by investing all available resources in the Kingdom and opening doors for strategic industries to operate and flourish.”   “The Kingdom continues to support and develop the mining sector under competitive conditions, combining innovation and excellence, while pumping huge investments of over 130 billion Saudi Riyals to establish an infrastructure of trains, ports, gas supplies, power, water, sulfur, phosphate and aluminum plants tied to the mining industry established by the Maaden Company,” he added.   “The achievement in Ras Al-Khair is an example of the achievements the Kingdom is capable of making through the convergence of the efforts of all Government agencies, including building and operating integrated basic and industrial infrastructure systems across the country, thus sending out a message to the whole world that once the will is there, we can make achievements that others would consider impossible.”   Saudi Aramco’s President and CEO, Amin Nasser, said: “Ras Al-Khair will be a dynamic industrial stronghold in the Kingdom, incubating various industries. Saudi Aramco leads world class marine facilities and services which are considered the largest in the Middle East in terms of volume and production capacity, with at least 30% of its production targeted for export.”   Nasser added that as part of Saudi Vision 2030, the project will help increase economic diversification and enhance the localization of the energy industry, with Saudi Aramco endeavoring to double the percentage of local content in commodities and services produced in the Kingdom, to reach 70% by 2021.    The complex will host a number of support services facilities and a residential compound with associated recreational amenities. It is expected to commence primary operations in the beginning of 2019. The entire complex is expected to reach full operational capacity by 2021. The right strategies to achieve competitiveness and growth in the chemicals industry were the focus of a keynote speech by Abdulaziz Judaimi, Business Line Head of Downstream, Saudi Aramco, today at the 11th Annual Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA) Forum in Dubai, UAE. In his speech, Judaimi touched upon market conditions, the economic drivers of change in the region and the pivotal role of the chemical industry in adding     tremendous value to the overall global energy landscape. Judaimi said: “The only way to sustain competitiveness and growth – which is the theme of this conference – is to continue developing more differentiated, higher value products; continue creating strong brand identities; and continue upgrading to stay ahead of the curve.” He added, for more than 80 years, the region’s preeminence in the global upstream sector has been the bedrock of its strength and allowed the region to become a global petrochemicals hubs. However, he stressed that the region was at a development point where it cannot continue to depend on a single economic engine. He was also clear about the huge task facing the region if it is to catch up with the rest of the chemicals industry: “When just two-and-a-half percent of the revenue is made here, and less than one percent of the industry’s workforce is employed here, that is neither good enough nor sustainable enough.” “Instead, the development of the non-oil private sector, including the chemicals industry, has become a strategic necessity for the region,” said Judaimi. Having in place the right strategies would enable the chemicals industry to shift gears rapidly and take its place on the pedestal of the overall energy industry. “Clearly, there will continue to be opportunities to invest in the large-scale integrated base petrochemicals projects, underpinned by advantaged feedstocks, which have defined the development of our region’s chemical industry,” said Judaimi. He added that all these were encapsulated in Saudi Aramco’s downstream strategy, reflecting its leadership role in chemicals as an economic and social driver to achieve the development objectives of Saudi Vision 2030. Judaimi outlined four key areas which can be achieved through the industry’s collective efforts. First, refining-petrochemicals integration where he emphasized the importance of a better balance and integration of the upstream and downstream businesses. “A base level of integration can be achieved by adding value through shared infrastructure, utilities, and services, without compromising operations on either side. Higher levels of integration can be achieved with stream transfers, capital improvements that benefit both refineries and chemicals, and overall site optimization of operations,” he said. He said that in 2017, nine of Saudi Aramco’s 15 refineries will produce chemicals, with conversion rates that can go to 20 percent of the total crude processed. The second focus area involved differentiated commodities and specialty chemicals where far greater expansion is needed. That was the idea behind Sadara Chemical Company, Saudi Aramco’s joint venture with The Dow Chemical Company and ARLANXEO, Saudi Aramco’s joint venture with Lanxess of Germany. “Production differentiation, by contrast, brings added value and a higher degree of margin stability,” he said. Third is innovation and technology to enhance processes and create new products and industries. Judaimi said that some of the company’s most recent achievements are the results of partnerships to create value through innovation such as Saudi Aramco’s joint efforts with SABIC to study the conversion of crude oil directly to high-value petrochemicals as well as the company’s recent acquisition of the Converge polyol technology from Novomer. The final and fourth area is talent. According to Judaimi, without a highly skilled workforce none of the efforts to change will work. The Gulf Petrochemicals and Chemicals Association (GPCA) represents the downstream hydrocarbon industry in the Arabian Gulf. Established in 2006, the association voices the common interests of more than 250 member companies from the chemical and allied industries, accounting for over 95% of chemical output in the Gulf region. The industry makes up the second largest manufacturing sector in the region, producing up to US$108 billion worth of products a year. By Abdulaziz Judaimi, Business Line Head, Downstream Dubai Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: good morning. Let me first add my thanks to His Excellency Dr. Sultan Al Jaber, Minister of State & CEO, ADNOC, for joining us today. Let me also convey a message from Saudi Aramco’s President and CEO, Mr. Amin Nasser. He considers GPCA the forum to discuss the waves of change our region’s chemicals industry faces, and conveys his apologies that he could not deliver this keynote in person. I am honored to do so on his behalf, particularly because of the long history I share with the Association. We are lucky to have GPCA’s help, with the networking, thought leadership, and advocacy that the membership has afforded. And I think that’s shown most clearly in the fivefold increase in membership that we have seen in the past decade. Ladies and gentlemen, today, I would like to address three main topics: Let me begin by looking at the changing nature of business over the past three decades. During that time, global corporate earnings have grown more than threefold to over $7 trillion. Yet, between them, companies from advanced economies in North America, Western Europe, Japan, South Korea, and a few others have captured more than two-thirds of global profits. China accounts for another 14%, and rising. Innovation, technology, and competitiveness are at the root of their success. By contrast, gaps in these areas explain why developing countries lag some distance behind. Furthermore, while technological imitation might work in the short-term, long-term success will remain elusive without novel innovation. The only way to sustain competitiveness and growth – which is the theme of this conference – is to continue developing more differentiated, higher value products; continue creating strong brand identities; and continue upgrading to stay ahead of the curve. Because profits are shifting to idea-intensive industries that revolve around R&D, digitalization, knowledge-content, and brands, while capital-intensive companies face growing pressures. On the positive side, when it comes to the customer base, the next decade will see an additional 2 billion people added to the pool. The lesson for our region is clear: companies that adapt quickly to these new realities can capture enormous opportunities. So let us move to the second topic and further understand the impact of regional economic drivers of change. We are beginning to see this play out in terms of the region’s changing economic policies. For more than 80 years, our preeminence in the global Upstream has been the bedrock of our strength, and it has allowed us to become a global petrochemicals hub. But we are at a development point where we cannot continue to depend on a single economic engine. Instead, the development of the non-oil private sector, including the chemicals industry, has become a strategic necessity for the region. And, in Saudi Arabia, we have formalized this with our Vision 2030. To some, there are fast-moving currents that are overwhelming challenges to cope with. To me, they are the green light for our industry to shift gears rapidly by applying the lessons of innovation, technology, and competitiveness. But what should our strategy be? Clearly, there will continue to be opportunities to invest in the large-scale integrated base petrochemicals projects, underpinned by advantaged feedstocks, which have defined the development of our region’s chemical industry. But when just 2.5 percent of the global petrochemicals industry’s revenue is made here, and less than 1 percent of the industry’s workforce is employed here, that is neither good nor sustainable. To change this situation, at pace, I believe we must target our collective efforts in four key areas. First, we need to better balance and integrate our Upstream and Downstream businesses. As our CEO said to the World Energy Congress in Istanbul last month, Saudi Aramco plans to invest more than $300 billion over the coming decade. This will reinforce our preeminent position in oil; maintain our spare oil production capacity; and allow us to pursue a large exploration and production program centering on conventional and unconventional gas resources. But with our crude oil production capacity at 12 million barrels per day, we have also grown our global refining capacity to more than 5 million barrels per day currently, and plan to raise it to 8-10 before 2030. And, in chemicals, our equity capacity, across our global operations, is expected to grow from 12 million metric tons per year to 34 over the same period. Altering the equation in this way calls for maximizing the value of Saudi Arabia’s hydrocarbon production, including vertical and horizontal integration across the value chain. A base level of integration can be achieved by adding value through shared infrastructure, utilities, and services, without compromising operations on either side. Higher levels of integration can be achieved with stream transfers, capital improvements that benefit both refineries and chemicals, and overall site optimization of operations. Next year, nine out of Saudi Aramco’s 15 refineries will produce chemicals, with conversion rates that can go to 20 percent of the total crude processed. And of course, done right, integration triggers multiplier effects in jobs and industries. By integrating our domestic and international refining network with chemicals production, we enable manufacturing hubs and conversion parks connected to our plants – which is an important driver of the enormous value being created by the North American and European chemicals industries. Our Plus Tech Park at Petro Rabigh on the west coast of Saudi Arabia, and the PlasChem Park at Sadara on the east are examples of our own conversion strategy in action. The second area, we will need far greater expansion into differentiated products, including differentiated commodities and specialties. As you all know, commodity margins are volatile and driven by conditions of supply, demand, and capacity utilization. Production differentiation, by contrast, brings added value and a higher degree of margin stability. In fact, that kind of potential was the vision for Sadara. As the source of an entirely new product slate to the region, Sadara will launch new industries, including water treatment chemicals, automotive parts, personal care products, and detergents. We also see growth prospects with ARLANXEO, our joint venture with Lanxess of Germany. Its high-performance synthetic rubber and elastomer products have applications beyond the automotive and tire industry, including construction and oil and gas. Moving to the third area, we need knowledge-based innovation to stimulate new technologies and processes, leading to new products and industries, is clearly mission critical, as I highlighted earlier. As the GPCA Innovation Survey found last year, the region’s major petrochemical and chemical producers are thankfully putting innovation and technology at the top of their agendas at last. Certainly, some of Saudi Aramco’s most significant recent achievements have been in domestic Downstream partnerships aimed at value creation through innovation. For example, this summer, SABIC and Saudi Aramco signed a commitment to study the conversion of crude oil directly to high-value petrochemicals. This is precisely the kind of technology that will leverage the region’s vast oil reserve base, maximize chemical yield, transform and recycle by-products, and diversify the Kingdom’s petrochemical feedstock mix. We are hugely excited by it. Elsewhere, we recently acquired the Converge® polyol technology from the US-based company, Novomer. This breakthrough technology uses waste carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide as feedstocks to manufacture valuable polymers, marrying improved product quality and lower cost with environmental benefits. We are also driving innovation through our corporate venturing subsidiary, Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures, which invests in high-end start-ups here and abroad with technologies of value to us. And finally, none of this will work without a highly skilled workforce. We need to focus our attention on the region’s skills base, and leverage the demographic advantage that a wide talent pool of youth has blessed us with. This in turn will require a broad mobilization to build the technical and managerial capabilities to develop the workforce of the future. That underlines the importance of quality education and training at all stages, and the importance of partnerships between the government, industry, and academia. Because there is no better investment we can make in the future of our countries than developing the minds of our young men and women. Ladies and gentlemen, our industry faces towering waves of change.  But we can also create towering waves of opportunity to achieve greater competitiveness, and open new paths to grow our global market share. So, let’s integrate and enhance the value chain. Let’s expand into differentiated commodities and specialty chemicals. Let’s prioritize innovation and technology, through partnerships.  And let’s build the workforce that takes our nations to the next level.  Thank you, and I wish you a productive conference.The EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) TeraPOWERS Technology Team, under the leadership of Saudi Aramco fellow Ali Dogru, achieved a major breakthrough with the industry’s first trillion cell reservoir simulation run on Oct. 28. Saudi Aramco’s cornerstone technology, the parallel oil, gas and water enhanced reservoir simulator (POWERS deployed 2000) has taken its next evolutionary step from mega-cell to giga-cell (GigaPOWERS achieved in 2010) and now to tera-cell (TeraPOWERS of 2016) simulation capability. “This is the world’s first trillion cell run, as well as a major breakthrough for the global scientific community. Using trillions of cells in a reservoir simulation environment was a long-awaited dream for the global petroleum industry and scientific community,” said  Dogru. “We simulated an oil migration problem in the Kingdom from the source rock to the trap with millions of years of history in 10 hours using 1 trillion active computational cells. This achievement opens the door for us to simulate the Saudi Arabian peninsula in its entirety, as one model, using the reservoir simulation grid. This means that we will be able to examine the peninsula under the microscope for new oil and gas fields.”  After more than a year of hard work and dedication, Saudi Aramco has achieved a five-year accreditation award for 28 of our training centers. This accomplishment is yet another breakthrough for Saudi Aramco in the area of education and training, and is yet another sign that the company continues to invest in the professional and vocational development of our workforce. In early 2016, a team of 17 evaluators from the Accrediting Council for Continuing Education and Training (ACCET) in the United States, including ACCET executive director William Larkin, concluded a final on-site examination of Saudi Aramco Training and Development’s (T&D) job skills, academic, and professional training centers, the Professional Engineering Development Division (PEDD), and for the first time, Drilling and Workover (D&WO). In total, 28 training organizations were candidates for accreditation or reaccreditation. Highlighting the magnitude of achieving accreditation for every proposed training center, Training & Development general manager Nabil K. Al-Dabal stated, “We are proud to maintain our longstanding accredited status for the sixth time since 1993. During this time, we have increased the number of centers accredited from five to 28, and through collaboration, we have extended our accreditation to cover different organizations. “This experience has improved the quality of learning and development in Saudi Aramco, has ensured that the programs delivered in our training centers match globally recognized standards of the highest quality, and has equipped us with the tools to accomplish all of this at a reduced cost. It goes without saying that such an achievement will not only satisfy our customers and the corporate strategy, but also will ensure that Saudi Aramco continues to be an employer of choice for both current and future employees.”    ACCET, which is one of the bodies that best fits Saudi Aramco’s needs, is an independent body that has been a longstanding partner of Saudi Aramco since 1993, when it accredited five of the company’s job skills training centers — a first in the Middle East.    As an organization, ACCET was established in 1974 for the purpose of improving continuing education and training. In 1978, ACCET was recognized by the U.S. Department of Education as a “reliable authority” on the quality of education and training. In 1998, ACCET became the only recognized accrediting agency to be certified as an ISO 9001 Quality Management System under the international standards established by the International Organization for Standardization, and to this day, it continues to hold this status.    Due to the length and complexity of the accreditation process, and to maintain consistency of standards through all 28 accredited training centers, T&D’s Quality Assurance and Training Performance Management (QA&TPM) Unit oversees and manages the accreditation process with ACCET and Saudi Aramco proponents. Abdulrahman Dirbashi, T&D consultant and supervisor of the QA&TPM Unit, coordinated the 2016 accreditation exercise from the first stages in March 2015 to its conclusion in August 2016.   “We are happy to see the unwavering support from all organizations, which has provided the necessary basis to make accreditation a successful enterprise. This reflects a serious commitment toward the quality of our program outcomes,” said Dirbashi. Hyundai and Saudi Aramco have inked contracts for the company’s ‘Uthmaniyah Ethane Deep Recovery Project. Tofiq H. Al Gabsani, Saudi Aramco’s acting executive director of Project Management, presided over a signing ceremony with Hyundai director and project director Jae Ho Junin and Chul Ho Ryu, general manager of the company’s al-Khobar branch office, at Saudi Aramco’s Dhahran headquarters. The project will involve the recovery of ethane, propane and natural gas liquids from sales gas at ‘Uthmaniyah. Al Gabsani praised the quality of Hyundai’s previous work with Saudi Aramco and said the two parties will maintain a high level of communication for the duration of the project. In the pursuit of promoting a collaborative, free-thinking environment that encourages brainstorming and pushes creativity, Saudi Aramco’s EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) members recently participated in a competition to present the “MADdest” idea.   The Mentally Advanced Discussion (MAD) is an interdisciplinary version of EXPEC’s regular Technology Weekly Information eXchange (TWIX) seminar where teams rotate in presenting their challenges and creative solutions, which in turn generates lively discussion and stimulates idea creation. MAD TWIX adds a twist to the process by creating a healthy, competitive environment in which all teams present their latest research or novel ideas sequentially at one single session. “Moderating this challenging, and exciting, technical event has always been very rewarding,” said Amr Abdel-Fattah, who has been coordinating the TWIX program for more than three years. “It is astonishing to see the TWIX program increasingly impact our business through producing out-of-the-box research ideas and collaborations that can transform current technologies and the way we do things today. “The value of these ideas is not only in their MADness and novelty, but also in their ability to stimulate scientists to produce unconventional multidisciplinary solutions to current challenges. It was particularly intriguing to see the dynamics during MAD TWIX and eager engagement among EXPEC ARC scientists and researchers at the event — they all felt the true ownership of such a great accomplishment.” MAD TWIX objectives are directly aligned with EXPEC ARC business goals and strategies. The competition stimulates far-reaching idea creation as members from each research team brainstorm and prepare out-of-the-box ideas. It also promotes increasing interaction across teams to share ideas that push the limits of science, thereby sparking new, high-potential research relating to our upstream business.   Seven talks were delivered by EXPEC ARC researchers — representing six upstream technology disciplines — to attendees and peer judges selected from each technology team.   “The tough questions we asked presenters upon each talk led to enthusiastic debating,” said Abdulkareem AlSofi, who chaired the judging committee. “Our discussions afterward in judging and ranking the MAD ideas were equally challenging.”   The judges presented the distinct MAD TWIX award to the Computational Modeling Technology Team for its “Petro-interpretation Crowd Sourcing Smartphone Game.” Paul Crumpton introduced the novel concept that packages geo- and petro-interpretations into a fun smartphone game utilizing crowd-sourcing to obtain potentially millions of human interpretations of petro-data.   “Our team held lively brainstorming sessions to come up with several MAD, out-of-the-box ideas that would impact the way we do business,” said Crumpton. “We chose the crowd-sourcing technology to infuse a contemporary successful concept into a rather methodical aspect of our petroleum engineering sciences.”   The second most captivating concept was the Drilling Technology Team’s “3-D Surgical Downhole Solutions,” which was presented by young professionals Mohammad Aljubran and Hussain AlBahrani. It explained how the team would use downhole 3-D ranging/visualization technology and advanced laser welding to develop a solution for a wide variety of both cased and open hole wellbore problems.   Third place went to the Production Technology Team’s “Frac-Map: Mapping the Fractured Zones Using Smart Chips.” Muhammad Arsalan proposed an idea will help accurately map induced fractures — their depth and spread during and after the hydraulic fracturing process — in the zones of interest.   “The ingenuity of our researchers never fails to provoke and stimulate further discussion — and brings team strengths together to solve technical challenges collaboratively,” said Ali A. Al-Meshari, acting manager of EXPEC ARC. “Many research projects and deployed technologies are a product of these engaging forums. Collaboration with our upstream proponents has put numerous TWIX ideas into action in the field.”   TWIX and MAD TWIX are examples of the many forums EXPEC ARC offers for young professionals to step up and shine. EXPEC ARC also holds a special Young Researcher Grand Challenge to provide young employees a venue to share research with the department and to improve presentation skills. Saudi Aramco recently hosted a symposium in Paris to promote its In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, a corporate initiative to increase the localization of goods and services into the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Hosted by Saudi Aramco’s European affiliate Aramco Overseas Company (AOC), the “Aramco Sourcing & Localization Symposium,” attracted over 215 participants, representing 140 prequalified suppliers from 20 European countries. The companies covered several business and industrial sectors, including energy, manufacturing, construction, marine, and training. Fahad AbdulKareem, AOC President, highlighted that prequalified European suppliers were invited to invest in the Kingdom considering the opportunities of the private sector growth in Saudi Arabia. The symposium also aimed to source new partnerships to the company’s slate of future capital projects. The symposium was an opportunity to discuss the investment plans of more than 25 companies who are aiming to establish their manufacturing presence in Saudi Arabia by 2017, in addition to 30 service contractors who intend to participate in future Saudi Aramco projects. AbdulKareem said: “Through the partnerships we developed at the Symposium, we are driving localization and economic diversification in the Kingdom to create new job opportunities and industries as our contribution to Saudi Vision 2030.” Nassir Al-Yami, Saudi Aramco Manager of Industrial Development and Strategic Supply Department, said that “the overall interest and feasibility studies of new investment plans submitted by European companies reflect the strong market opportunity and sound business environment the Kingdom provides to European investors.” Several Saudi government entities participated in the symposium, including representatives from Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA), Saudi Industrial Development Fund (SIFD), Human Resources Development Fund (HRDF), and Saudi Industrial Property Authority (MODON). Saudi Aramco has acquired the Converge® product line and associated operations and technologies from U.S.-based Novomer Inc. The transaction was valued at up to US$100 Million. Converge® is manufactured from and contains a significant portion of Carbon Dioxide (CO2). The technology provides a high-performance, cost competitive and more sustainable alternative to conventional petroleum-based polyols that are used in Coating, Adhesive, Sealant, and Elastomer (CASE) applications which feature in high-value, high-demand end-products, including within the flexible and rigid foam manufacturing segments. Applications cover a broad spectrum from automobile seats to building insulation panels. Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO said: “Some of Saudi Aramco’s most significant achievements in recent years have been in developing new international partnerships in the downstream space. There is compelling industrial logic to the Converge polyol technology deal as it enables the conversion of waste CO2 into cleaner, high-value end-products with significant performance, cost and carbon footprint improvements.. The deal also enables the development of new technological growth areas in line with Saudi Vision 2030 objectives of economic diversification and job creation.” Abdulaziz Al-Judaimi, the Acting Senior Vice President of Downstream, Saudi Aramco said: “The acquisition of the Converge® technology reflects the success of Saudi Aramco’s efforts to continuously seek the best possible opportunity for the commercialization of specific downstream technologies on a large-scale. This technology represents an excellent marriage of improved product quality and lower cost while achieving environmental benefits.” Judaimi added: “By providing access to reliable feedstock supplies, financial stability and unrivalled R&D investment and focus, Saudi Aramco will accelerate the commercialization of these exciting new polyol materials. This will help spur growth in the production of more sustainable finished and semi-finished products in the petrochemicals conversion sector, including within the small and medium enterprise sector in Saudi Arabia.” Compared to conventional polyols, Converge® polyols have approximately one-third the carbon footprint. When incorporated into polyurethane formulations, they demonstrate superior material performance including: increased strength; increased abrasion, chemical and weather resistance; increased adhesion, hardness and tear-strength; greater load bearing capacity; and reduced heat of combustion. Saudi Aramco will manufacture and market Converge® and associated products through its subsidiary, Aramco Performance Materials LLC (APM). Saudi Aramco is planning for full-scale production facilities in Saudi Arabia to support the manufacture of specialty and intermediate chemical products to supply a wide variety of industries. Saudi Aramco’s carbon capture, utilization and storage (CCUS) technology deployment and research & development activities are part of a holistic approach to complement Saudi Arabia’s broader energy efficiency and greenhouse gas (GHG) management framework. In July 2015, Saudi Aramco launched Saudi Arabia’s first carbon capture and storage pilot project at the ‘Uthmaniyah field and Hawiyah facilities. Currently the largest such project in the Middle East, it will inject 800,000 tons of CO2 every year. Saudi Aramco has also pioneered research on capturing CO2 from mobile sources, developing a prototype vehicle that can capture up to 25% CO2 in real driving conditions. In 2013 Saudi Aramco made a venture investment in Novomer, through its Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures (SAEV) subsidiary, to help accelerate the development and commercialization of the Converge technology.  At Saudi Aramco facilities around the Kingdom, thousands of talented young employees are making an impact on the company, taking on crucial projects and positions of great responsibility. With a large percentage of the current workforce now young employees, this influx of boundless energy and fresh perspectives have presented the company with an incredible opportunity.    How can Saudi Aramco ensure that its employees have the technical and professional skills they need to do the job effectively and efficiently?    One of the answers is the Knowledge Transfer (KT) program, an initiative from Saudi Aramco’s Training and Development organization. Launched in 2009, the KT program matches talented young employees with more experienced staffers, some of them with decades of valuable experience.    Originally targeting staffers in technical operations, the KT program now has a vision of developing a companywide system for facilitating learning across all departments — both in technical operations and in professional offices.    Today, KT is part of Saudi Aramco’s corporate culture, and those who participate in the program — both mentors and mentees — say that they can see immediate benefits, not only for the company, but also personally. The spirit of KT can now be found throughout the company.  Participants in the KT program describe it as a win-win for their organization and for their people. KT gives young employees the competencies and confidence to do their jobs well. It also gives experienced employees the satisfaction of seeing that their hard-earned knowledge will remain with the company where they have spent years, and even decades, of their career. And for Saudi Aramco, it’s a key program for making sure that Saudi Aramco maintains its position as the world’s most reliable supplier of energy, even as it supports the Kingdom’s aspirations to diversify its economy and to become a hub of innovation and investment. Reconciling the priorities of supplying reliable energy to the world while also addressing climate change was the focus of a keynote speech by Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser today at the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center (KAPSARC) Energy Dialogue Conference in Riyadh. “The role of energy in global economic development is undeniable, but so is the environmental sustainability of the planet. For Saudi Aramco, addressing climate change is a critical objective,” Nasser said in his keynote. Noting that there’s a direct link between energy, economic prosperity and living standards, Nasser cited the per capita, per year energy consumption of India, China and the U.S., adding that in 25 years, global average of energy consumption per capita is expected to remain substantially unchanged from present levels. While the global population will increase, the efficient use of energy will help moderate emission levels. “Fortunately, under this scenario, CO2 emissions are projected to grow by less than 14%, or roughly half of the rise in energy consumption.” Nasser outlined the key strategies Saudi Aramco is pursuing to minimize the carbon footprint of energy. Climate change is driving the transformation of the global energy system, but to be successful, there’s a need for alternatives to be ready to reliably and economically meet; growing world energy demand, he said. However, Nasser added, “pragmatism demands that sufficient investments must continue to be made in oil and gas during the long transition. And at the same time strong emphasis needs to be placed on minimizing the carbon footprint. The Kingdom is fully committed to the goal of clean energy, and climate change is a top priority.” Nasser cited the Global Methane Initiative, Mission Innovation and the Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum, or CSLF, as examples where Saudi Arabia is part of the global mission to address climate change and reduce greenhouse gas. Saudi Aramco is pursuing a comprehensive carbon management strategy: helping to support the Kingdom’s efforts in energy efficiency that is focused on all end-user sectors; expanding gas supplies; focusing on developing renewables; and boosting research and development of win-win technologies that could dispose of carbon while turning it into beneficial products. Nasser said that Saudi Aramco is pursuing partnerships in carbon management initiatives. “Collaboration is an area of vital importance, and Saudi Aramco recognizes the power of partnerships.” Saudi Aramco also plans to invest in renewables as the Kingdom diversifies its energy mix, Nasser disclosed. “In renewables, we plan to play a role in helping the Kingdom achieve its ambition to become a solar powerhouse,” he said. Nasser said that, as part of a leading industry response to climate change, Saudi Aramco has partnered with nine international oil companies to form the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, or OGCI, whose members represent 20% of the world’s oil and gas production. In his speech, Nasser called on the King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center (KAPSARC) to “make an important contribution on climate change knowledge and research and create greater value for the Kingdom through value-adding research and studies in a range of areas, from monetization of the Kingdom’s resources, to studies on economy, energy, social issues and trade.” After his remarks, Nasser participated in a panel discussion with Daniel Yergin, Vice Chairman of IHS Markit, renowned historian and author of the award-winning books “The Prize” and “The Quest.” The two-day Energy Dialogue conference, held at KAPSARC's Conference Center, under the theme “Energy Transition and Economic Transformation,” was designed to help shape energy economics and policy insights that will impact the well-being of societies. The event offered an opportunity for high-level interaction on the challenges and new opportunities around the global energy landscape. KAPSARC’s Energy Dialogue was attended by senior energy and economic policymakers, experts, researchers, and civil society from several countries. Saudi Aramco confirmed today, as a follow-up to recently published reports by the media about a corruption case involving Embraer S.A., a Brazilian company, that its internal auditing activities that took place a few years ago revealed irregularities of the transaction that occurred between Brazilian Embraer S.A. and Saudi Aramco. With significant and extensive assistance from the Saudi Ministry of Interior authorities, Saudi Aramco’s internal investigations established that a former Saudi Aramco employee was involved in receiving a bribe in return for facilitating the purchase of three aircrafts from Embraer. These findings led the company to apply maximum disciplinary actions against its former employee per its policies. The matter was further referred by the company to the relevant national authorities and concurrently Saudi Aramco suspended all business dealings with Embraer since that time. The case dates back to 2012 when Saudi Aramco conducted an internal audit process of a transaction which led to identifying certain violations. This prompted Saudi Aramco to proactively initiate an internal investigation with the cooperation of concerned authorities in Saudi Arabia. The investigation confirmed the involvement of the former employee in these violations. Consequently, Saudi Aramco took appropriate measures against the involved former employee and referred the case to competent government authorities and cooperated in revealing all entities involved in this case. Saudi Aramco also cooperated with international agencies which were conducting similar investigations into Embraer’s transactions. This cooperation also contributed to revealing the circumstances of the case and its international network. Although Saudi Aramco has ceased all future dealings with Embraer and excluded them from any future business, the company is taking appropriate legal measures against Embraer over the aforementioned violations upon the completion of the ongoing investigations by all other agencies.
 An exchange of experiences and mutual cooperation were the highlights of a visit to Saudi Aramco headquarters last week of HE Alexander Novak, the Russian Minister of Energy, and his official delegation.    Novak was welcomed by HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, the Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources for Saudi Arabia; Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco president and CEO; and other company executives and management.   Saudi Aramco was the first destination on Novak’s schedule during his visit to the Kingdom.    In welcoming the Russian minister, Al-Falih said the visit was historic and would pave the way for enhanced relations between the two strongest oil and gas producers in the world. Novak thanked the hosts for the invitation and expressed his pleasure on the visit — his first to the Kingdom — which he described as important.    He noted that despite the climates in the Kingdom and Russia differing considerably, he was keen to share experiences. He said both countries could consider future cooperation, including the establishment of joint ventures.   In a presentation by Ammar A. Al Nahwi, manager of the Research and Development Center, the visiting delegation listened to a profile of Saudi Aramco’s business, future plans, and our role in support of the Saudi economy and the Kingdom’s Vision 2030. Al Nahwi highlighted the advanced technologies used by Saudi Aramco in Upstream operations designed to increase production and reduce costs. He also emphasized the company’s roles in research, environment, and citizenship.    Novak and the visiting delegation were also taken to the Oil Supply Planning and Scheduling (OSPAS) Department where they were briefed in the control room by Ahmed A. Al Subaey, vice president of Marketing and Supply Planning. The delegation was also taken on tours of the EXPEC Computer Center and Upstream Professional Development Center, among others.    They were also given aerial tours of company operations at Ras Tanura, Jubail, Ras Al-Khair, and Manifa.   The final destination for the visiting delegation were the sandy dunes of Shaybah, where Novak took the opportunity to speak with a Russian news channel regarding his visit. Novak also listened to presentations on Shaybah’s geography and wildlife, as well as the company’s efforts in maintaining and preserving both, to which he expressed his admiration. He also noted that oil exploration in Siberia faced similar challenges to those found in Shaybah.    The visit ended with a dinner held in honor of Novak, who stressed the importance of strengthening relations between the two countries.  Saudi Aramco and select individuals from the company were recognized for their achievements and support at the recent Society for Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Annual Technical Conference and Exhibit (ATCE), held at the Dubai World Trade Center in Dubai last month.    The company itself received a recognition certificate for its principal sponsorship of the ATCE in Dubai — the first time the ATCE had been held in the Middle East. In addition, president and CEO Amin Nasser and Upstream senior vice president Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani were given appreciation awards for their participation as keynote speakers on the opening day of the three-day event.    As the leading upstream producer in the oil industry, Saudi Aramco plays a major role in sponsoring the SPE and its chapters throughout the Kingdom. The SPE is the industry’s top professional organization for oil and gas professionals. With more than 7,000 international oil and gas industry leaders and professionals from around the globe attending the meeting, the event was an opportunity for learning and collaboration and to showcase the latest technologies being implemented by the company.    The company’s own SPE chapter, the SPE-Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Section (SPE-KSA), was named the recipient of the 2016 President’s Award for Section Excellence.    “This prestigious award recognizes SPE sections with remarkable programs. The SPE-KSA team’s endeavors to go beyond routine practices have clearly distinguished it among 207 sections across the globe,” said Fahad Al-Mutairi, SPE-KSA chairman. “This substantial achievement was only possible with the dedication, commitment, and hard work of the whole SPE-KSA team.” Saudi Aramco refutes media reports implying that the company is bidding for the purchase of the LyondellBasell refinery in Houston, Texas. These media reports are inaccurate, as the company did not bid for the referred venture.  Cleaning solar panels has long been a manual task but thanks to a new technology developed at Saudi Aramco, a robotic solution cleans the panels and help avoid a 40% reduction in efficiency of the energy collecting solar panels.    Saudi Aramco’s Research and Development Center (R&DC) of Technology Oversight and Coordination (TOC) has produced a low-cost, competitive technology - using in-house developers - to mitigate the impact of dust on solar panels.   The Intelligent Systems Team, in collaboration with King Abdullah University of Science and Technology, anticipate that their technologies will be commercially available in 2017.    With the Kingdom’s focus on alternative sources of energy, solar power is an obvious cost-effective, sustainable, renewable and reliable source of energy.    The Robotic Dust Mitigation (RDM) project began in 2014, with the goal of mitigating the impact of dust, determining the economics of various cleaning mechanisms and developing new technologies to reduce the cost of dust mitigation.    The project team undertook more than two years of research and testing, during which different cleaning mechanisms were reviewed to measure efficiencies and test whether the cleaning process caused any significant damage or transmittance losses.    Ali Al Shehri, a project research scientist, explains, “Preliminary research included a testing apparatus that simulates long-term brushing of solar panels to measure impact on light transmittance. A testbed was developed to simulate dust in an outside environment and several 20-year equivalent accelerated wear tests were conducted.”   Version three of the prototype uses a robotic mechanism with silicon brushes to clean the solar arrays. The silicon rubber foam — a novel type of brush with no previous research described in literature — significantly reduces the cost of the brush and provides highly effective, nonabrasive cleaning.    The robotic system has been iterated through multiple prototypes. The current version can be easily monitored, evaluated, repaired and maintained; cost estimates suggest that it would cost less than $1,000 at manufacturing scale; and it is fully automated to run on schedule or on command. Additionally, the robotic technology has a high durability, making it reliable even in climates like those of Saudi Arabia.   Currently, the RDM technology has multiple pending patents and there are active discussions underway with external parties related to partnering and licensing.    The commercialization of the RDM technology will ensure that an economically favorable, reliable technology is available to the solar energy market in Saudi Arabia and the region while supporting emerging players and helping to generate renewable energy in the GCC region and other countries such as India, China, and Chile.    Saudi Aramco emergency response teams have controlled a fire that occurred close to a tank at a crude oil processing facility located in Alwsea’ area, near Riyadh.   This incident happened around 3:00 p.m. Wednesday October 19, 2016. We regret to report that several injuries have occurred, all are being treated.   The Company’s operations are not impacted. The company will release additional information as it becomes available. Abdulaziz Abdulkarim, Saudi Aramco Vice President of Procurement and Supply Chain Management, participated today in an event marking the expansion of General Electric’s Manufacturing and Technology Center (GEMTECH) in Dammam Industrial City. GE Saudi Arabia hosted the event at the newly constructed facility, which was held under the patronage of HRH Prince Saud bin Nayef, Governor of the Eastern Province.   The inauguration of the facility was attended by H.E. Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, who delivered a keynote speech and took part in a ministerial panel discussion on “Digital Transformation of Industry and Saudi Vision 2030: Driving diversification and localization in the Kingdom.”   Speaking at a panel discussion on “Driving successful customer outcomes through the Digital Industrial ecosystem” where he discussed Saudi Aramco’s flagship In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) localization program, Abdulkarim said: “As strongly as we believe in iktva and local value creation, we do not underestimate the task at hand. We understand deeply the ecosystem that is required to enable connections, collaboration and meaningful opportunity.” He added: “Over the last few years we have been laying the economic groundwork to facilitate success for our supplier network and enable the success of iktva and the transformation of the Kingdom’s economy to a more diversified industrial base. These preparations have included work with government agencies to expand facilities for training the workforce our suppliers will need, and to develop the economic clusters required to support new industries.” The expansion of GEMTECH, which will include a heavy-duty gas turbine manufacturing facility, marks an important contribution to meeting the company’s iktva objectives by increasing spend with local manufacturers, creating meaningful jobs for Saudis, while also providing training opportunities for local talent. Iktva is strongly aligned with the industrial transformation of the Kingdom and Vision 2030, helping drive investment by the company’s supplier network in impactful ways, such as increasing the production of local goods and services. Saudi Aramco's Offshore Projects Department recently awarded a fifth Long-Term Agreement (LTA) to National Petroleum Construction Company (NPCC) of Abu Dhabi for the execution of its world-class offshore development program. In June 2015, four LTA contracts were awarded to internationally renowned Engineering, Procurement, Fabrication and Offshore installation (EPIC) contractors.  The LTA was signed by Saudi Aramco Project Management Executive Director Tofiq Gabsani and Aqeel Madhi, CEO of NPCC. Under the LTAs, contractors will be entrusted with the responsibility to deliver a huge number of offshore oil and gas producing platforms, tie-in platforms, pipelines, power cables, and all the related facilities required under the current Master Plan for Saudi Aramco's offshore fields. The LTA contracts have a fixed duration of six years with options to be extended for up to twelve years in total. Commenting on the milestone of awarding the high impact agreement, Ahmad Al Saadi, Senior Vice President of Saudi Aramco’s Technical Services said “This fifth strategic LTA is needed for the successful execution of the complex and extensive offshore projects to be completed in the offshore Oil & Gas fields in the Arabian Gulf — all within an aggressive schedule”. He also underlined the importance of local procurement and working with local companies, contractors and employing Saudis as outlined in the Company’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program. Aqeel Madhi, CEO of NPCC said “It is a great honor and a great opportunity to be part of the LTA for Saudi Aramco’s offshore projects. We consider Saudi Aramco a strategic partner for us, and will spare no effort to ensure we meet the expectations of Saudi Aramco in terms of performance, quality and adherence to delivery schedule considering that NPCC have a good record in providing services according to the highest standards and foremost to achieve the aspirations of the IKTVA program”. About Saudi Aramco: Saudi Aramco is a world leader in integrated energy and chemicals. We are driven by the core belief that energy is opportunity. From producing approximately one in every eight barrels of the world’s crude oil supply to developing new energy technologies, our global team is dedicated to creating positive impact in all that we do. We focus on making our resources more sustainable and more useful. This promotes long-term economic growth and prosperity around the world. About NPCC: NPCC is a world class Engineering, Procurement and Construction Company that provides total EPC solutions to both the offshore and onshore Oil & Gas sector. It provides engineering, procurement, project management, fabrication, installation and commissioning to project owners and operators. It was established in 1973 and is owned by Senaat, an Abu Dhabi Government Holding Company and Consolidated Contractors Group (CCC), an International Construction Group. The importance of creating and sustaining a knowledge-based society and the critical role reading has in establishing and maintaining that society was emphasized at a ceremony held Friday to recognize this year’s winners of the national iRead competition.   More than 1,000 people attended the awards ceremony in Dhahran for the Saudi Aramco-sponsored program, which just concluded a fourth year. The initiative has been run by the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture since its inception.   “It is hard to have successful human communication among individuals, institutions, and people without building a communication of deep understanding that is established and reinforced by a reading habit,” said Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser, adding it is through this habit that “pillars of respect, peace, and the socio-economic and developmental cooperation between human beings” can be established.   The iRead competition organizers presented awards to this year’s eight winners in front of an audience of more than 1,000 people. The Reader of the Year winners were Tala Al-Mula, preparatory school student; Amjaad Al-Ghamdi and Aussaid A’jiz, high school students; and Shuruq Al-Zahrani, college student. The popular winner by audience vote was Sara Al-Rehaily. Three participants won the Beauty Reader award in the professional photography competition: Ali Hazazi, Hossam Abdullatif, and Sultan Al-Ghamdi.  The 2016 iRead was launched with a whole new look at the organizational and cultural levels. The number of submissions this year reached 14,000 following the program’s success in previous years as the competition’s prominence has risen steadily Kingdomwide, as well as in the wider Arabian Gulf cultural scene. Over the four years, iRead has come to be recognized by many intellectuals in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf states. Dr. Samir Al-Damir, who presented one of the distinguished lectures on folklore art at the iThra gathering for the iRead competition, said “In Arab culture, we are used to having awards and honors given to those who have reached an old age and have much experience. However, the iRead competition has come to break this tradition and give the boys and girls in the different school grades a strong motivation to unleash their potential and creativity. That is why the iRead competition is so astonishing, with a new look and precise criteria in polishing, establishing, and motivating Saudi people to reach new horizons in creativity, roam in the vast spaces of knowledge, immerse themselves in reading and communicating with books, and create the visual content accompanying what they have read. “This Aramco initiative, run by the center, might be the first and most important initiative in the field of creative and innovative initiatives,” he continued. “In my opinion, it will be a catalyst and a source of inspiration for many sectors to offer social and cultural services that contribute to the best interests of the homeland and people of Saudi Arabia. A heartfelt thank you to all who backed this perfect idea, made it a tangible reality, and put a smile on the faces of the audience and families in our beloved homeland and awe in their eyes and hearts.”  The cultural attendant at the iRead competition, Albara Al-Auhali, said the competition reached an even higher level of maturity this year. He stressed that the submissions this year were highly professional. He also lauded the new experience of cooperation with different actors to announce the competition through them, as well as a number of partnerships that will open new horizons. The panel of judges this year included Dr. Amirah Al-Ja’fari, dean of the Faculty of Arts at the University of Dammam, Dr. Mustafa Al-Hasan, professor of Islamic Studies at the King Fahd University for Petroleum and Minerals, critic Tariq Al-Khawaji, and author Shtiwi Al-Ghaithi. The competition aims to instill a culture of reading in society and make it a habit and a priority for every person and family. This is very essential and strategic for national development in order to build the society and develop industry, trade, and investment. Reading opens important doors to the wider world, boosting understanding and helping with successful communication with others. It is also linked to building character, overcoming fear, and cultivating self-expression by developing the skills of presenting and speaking in front of an audience. These skills are deeply rooted in the Arabic culture, and have an immense importance among the 21st century skill set in terms of producing leaders who are distinguished in the fields of business, opinion, and society in general. Saudi Aramco CEO Amin H. Nasser delivered a keynote address to the world’s leading energy ministers, officials, and executives, stating that oil and gas will remain at the heart of the global energy mix over the next several decades while the world transitions to alternatives. Speaking at the 23rd World Energy Congress in Istanbul, with the theme “Embracing New Frontiers,” Nasser stated that the energy industry is presently facing challenges, not only because of low oil prices, but because of slowing global investments in oil and gas projects which are tightening the supply-demand balance. He cautioned that deferred investments estimated at $1 trillion in oil and gas projects may lead to a shortfall in supply. Throughout its more than 80-year long history, Saudi Aramco had experienced several downturn cycles but always maintained a long-term view of energy investment. He said: “We will continue to invest in our core oil and gas projects, and in downstream and chemicals. We are continuing to maintain our spare production capacity to help respond to unforeseen events, and help minimize their potential impact on the global economy. By doing so, we are playing our part in enhancing global energy security.” He also noted the oil market is beginning to recover. In the next ‘transitional phase,’ the world will move towards alternatives. However, according to IEA estimates, some 75% of global primary energy demand (about 360 million barrels per day of oil equivalent) in 2040 will still be met by fossil fuels. Therefore, the pivotal role of oil and gas in the global energy mix will continue for decades to come. Nasser also indicated the energy industry must embrace a new roadmap he called ‘Energy 2.0’ which is characterized by three essential components. “Business as usual cannot be our future model,” he said. First, “we must continue making adequate and timely investments in the supply of fossil fuels. At Saudi Aramco, we plan to invest more than $300 billion over the coming decade to reinforce our preeminent position in oil, maintain our spare oil production capacity, massively expand our conventional gas production, and exploit unconventional gas resources.” Secondly, Nasser said, “The industry must ensure a strong financial capacity and greater resilience by altering the underlying cost structure. Greater efficiency, cost competitiveness and integration are critical imperatives.” The third component is investment in innovation and technology to make the use of ultra clean oil, as well as overcome the challenges faced by alternatives. When it comes to shaping the future energy landscape in a greenhouse gas-constrained world, we know that our approach must be industry-led, technology-driven, and have real commercial applications.” Nasser further added that technological advances would help to raise the aggregate recovery factor of Saudi Aramco’s major producing reservoirs to 70%, and increase its oil resources by 100 billion barrels to reach 900 billion barrels. Discussing the third phase in the future of energy, or what Nasser called Energy 3.0, he indicated that to economically introduce alternative energy sources at scale will require major technology investments, and will be deployed gradually amid growing global fragmentation, nationalism, and anti-globalization sentiment around the world. Addressing the key role Saudi Aramco is playing in the economic diversification and sustainable development of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, as set out in Saudi Vision 2030, Nasser said a key component of the Vision is an emphasis on the localization of business activities. “As part of Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add program (IKTVA), we will more than double our procurement of locally produced energy-related goods and services to reach 70% by 2021. While in Istanbul, the CEO took part in bi-lateral meetings with members of the Turkish business community, and announced 18 MOU’s with leading Turkish construction companies, which will further enable investment in the Kingdom to support Saudi Vision 2030. Co-hosted by the President of Turkey, H.E. Recep Tayyip Erdogan, and the World Energy Council, the World Energy Congress is the premier international, multi-energy forum dedicated to the global energy platform. The 23rd World Energy Congress enables dialogue among energy ministers and leaders from business, finance, and academia. World Energy Congress (WEC) Remarks by Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO  Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and Gentlemen, good morning, and Günaydin. Let me first thank the World Energy Council for asking me to address this prestigious global event. It is a privilege to be with you all today. I am also delighted to be sharing this session with my good friend and colleague, Bob Dudley. I must say that Istanbul is an inspired choice of location for this Congress. Famous as the city where east and west meet, it is a perfect place to gather the full strength of the energy industry, and discuss the frontiers we must all embrace to deliver a secure, equitable, and sustainable energy future. This morning, I would like to share Saudi Aramco’s perspective on our industry’s future, using three broad periods of time. Let me start with the environment we face today, which has never been more challenging and more dynamic. As we all know, a lot has happened in the global oil markets since our last Congress in Korea three years ago. Back then, Brent crude was trading at around $110 a barrel; today it is not even half that price, and it even traded earlier this year at less than a quarter. The oil and gas industry has been shaken by collapsed earnings, jobs losses, and business shutdowns. In fact, if the market weakness continues, we expect that around $1 trillion in marginal resources development may be delayed or canceled by the end of this decade. And, potentially, there is an even graver consequence. Just as the resilient global oil production we have been seeing over the past couple of years is underpinned by a decade of healthy investments, I am concerned that the capital deferrals we are currently witnessing will have the opposite effect over the next decade. If they do, I fear that global oil supply growth will fall behind demand over time. That would have a major impact on both oil prices and the global economy. Having said this, as you know, the market is starting to recover, so let us hope things continue to improve. At Saudi Aramco, our response has always been to take a long-term and flexible approach. We have continued to invest prudently in our core oil and gas projects, and in the downstream and chemicals. Where we have deferred and stretched projects, these have mostly been in discretionary and support investments. And we are continuing to maintain our spare production capacity to help respond to unforeseen events, and help minimize their potential impact on the global economy.By doing so, we are playing our part in enhancing the energy security of global consumers, like Turkey. Looking next at the transition period as the world moves towards alternatives, the facts are clear. The world’s primary energy demand today is about 280 million barrels per day of oil equivalent. Roughly 80% of it is supplied by fossil fuels, and close to a third is met by oil. By 2040, that primary energy demand will rise from 280 million barrels per day of oil equivalent to 360 million. Yet it is anticipated that some 75% of it will still be met by fossil fuels. What is more, although the share of fossil fuels in the global energy mix decreases by 2040, their demand in absolute terms still grows, rising from 230 million barrels per day of oil equivalent to 270 million. And for oil specifically, it is expected to rise from over 96 million barrels per day to about 104 million. So the role of oil and gas in the global energy mix seems likely to remain significant for decades to come. Yet business as usual cannot be our future model. Low oil prices do not change the fact that the current oil and gas resources, as well as new discoveries, are more challenging and more expensive to develop. Equally, today’s oil and gas fields are becoming increasingly mature and complex to operate. And although alternatives and renewables face hurdles, their role will steadily grow, as the world moves towards a new energy era driven by the Paris Agreement on climate change. Ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear. Navigating this transition period will require a new roadmap – a real and holistic “Energy 2.0”, if you will. And the whole of our industry will need to develop and embrace this new business model. Clearly, Energy 2.0 will encompass a wide range of issues, but I want to concentrate on three important and closely related components this morning. First, we must continue making adequate and timely investments in the supply of oil and gas. That sounds like more of the same, but I am concerned that these longer-term investments might not be made, thanks to the combined effect of price uncertainty, and environmental, regulatory and social pressures. However, at Saudi Aramco, our investments continue to be driven by our long-term focus. We plan to invest more than $300 billion over the coming decade to reinforce our preeminent position in oil, maintain our spare oil production capacity, and pursue a large exploration and production program centering on conventional and unconventional gas resources. Second, the current environment has demonstrated that strong financial capacity is an essential component of greater resilience. Without it, our industry will not be able to get past soft patches like the current downturn, and make those long-term investments. Another essential component of Energy 2.0 will be dramatically altering our underlying cost structure – even at Saudi Aramco where we enjoy the benefits of prolific oil and gas fields, and production costs that are among the lowest in the industry. Greater efficiency and cost competitiveness – without compromising on safety or the environment – is mission critical for everyone, and it needs bold ideas. So, to create Energy 2.0 incremental improvements will not be enough; we will have to make transformational improvements. The current market situation has also demonstrated that integration can strengthen portfolio resilience for companies whose situations favor downstream, and especially those who excel at it. That is why we have grown our global refining capacity at Saudi Aramco to more than 5 million barrels per day currently, and plan to raise it to 8-10 by 2030. Similarly, our share of chemicals production capacity, across our global operations, will grow from 12 million metric tons per year to 34 over the same period. Third, we must make sufficient investment in innovation and technology to make the use of oil ultra clean, as well as overcome the challenges faced by alternatives. At Saudi Aramco, our goal is to become a world leader in cutting-edge energy, chemicals, and clean fuels technologies that boost efficiency, reduce cost, and minimize emissions. So we are leveraging global talent and expertise through 11 research centers and technology offices, spread across three continents, coordinated by our research and technology headquarters. We are also making use of strategic alliances and venture capital, including Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures, which invests in high-end, start-up tech companies that are working on some of the world’s most difficult, but exciting, energy challenges. And technological advances will help us to raise the aggregate recovery factor of our major producing reservoirs to 70%, and increase our oil resources by 100 billion barrels to reach 900 billion. We are already making real progress. For example, we are focused on solutions across the entire spectrum of carbon issues. Our work ranges from collaborative research with auto manufacturers on integrated engine-fuel systems of the future and Carbon Capture and Storage, to our pioneering work on turning CO2 into sustainable polymers and chemicals. And I should mention how we are particularly excited about our crude to chemicals initiative, which aims to eliminate the entire refining step of the process. These examples show that when it comes to shaping the future energy landscape in a greenhouse gas-constrained world, our approach must be industry-led, technology-driven, and have real commercial applications. So that is our Energy 2.0 roadmap for the transitional period. What about energy over the long-term, remembering that fossil fuels are still expected to supply about three-quarters of total primary energy demand in 2040? To economically introduce alternative energy sources at scale, I believe we must focus on three critical aspects. First, technology investments are required to overcome the existing technical and economic hurdles facing alternatives in general, and renewables in particular, leading to groundbreaking enhancements. Second, we need to see a prudent deployment of alternatives where they gradually, but steadily, assume a greater share of the energy burden, without causing disruption and economic hardship. Third, and just as important as the other two, will be our response to the growing fragmentation, nationalism, trade protectionism, and rising tide of anti-globalization sentiment around the world. In light of these uncertain headwinds and their potential economic impact, retaining the insurance of proven energy sources until the contours and substance of the alternative energy future are assured, is surely the smart play. For us at Saudi Aramco, we see a powerful mixture of increased energy efficiency, more gas, ultraclean oil fuels, advanced technologies, and certainly renewables, to be the long-term direction. On top of all this, Saudi Aramco is also playing its part in the Kingdom’s own long-term strategy. The newly-launched Vision 2030 was discussed yesterday by our Minister of Energy, Industry, and Mineral Resources (and Chairman of Saudi Aramco) in his keynote address. A key aim of the Vision is to diversify the Kingdom’s economy into suitable industrial sectors and services. That includes stronger commercial ties with partner countries like Turkey, and Saudi Aramco is already looking at some downstream opportunities here. Likewise, it is a great opportunity for Turkish companies to bring their expertise and invest in the Kingdom’s future. Later today, we will be signing Memorandums of Understanding with 18 Turkish construction companies that will enhance our bilateral business relationship still further. In addition, the Vision places special emphasis on localization. For Saudi Aramco, that means doubling the percentage of locally produced energy-related goods and services we source to 70% by 2021, boosting employment for talented young Saudis and driving export growth. Finally, the Vision is clear about the power of partnership, and so are we. For example, it is why we are a founding member of the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, or OGCI, with nine industry peers (and chaired by Bob), who account for more than 20% of global oil and gas production. We issued a joint declaration before COP21 in Paris which not only set out the significant achievements already made by our industry on this issue, but how we will catalyze practical action on climate change going forward. And we were proud to sign it.  Ladies and gentlemen, I hope my remarks illustrate the new frontiers we must all embrace in this challenging environment. And how Saudi Aramco is not only pursuing them, it is constantly redefining them, and the opportunities they bring us all. We know the final destination, which is alternative energy. But adequate supplies of reliable energy sources like oil and gas will be needed in the interim, while making them as clean as possible. It is the toughest journey our industry has ever undertaken, and it will take time. We must also accept that business as usual cannot be our future model, and is a critical first step in the transformation our industry needs. But with the pioneering qualities our industry is famous for, I truly believe we can make that bold yet smart move, and deliver the secure, equitable, and sustainable energy future the world needs. Thank you, and Teşekkür ederim.  A friendly competition between the U.S.-based Aramco research centers to identify innovative ideas and foster collaboration has resulted in the top award going to a project focused on a flow back diagnostic process that could be tested in field trials in the near future. Conceived by ASC R&D director Ashraf Al Tahini, the 2016 Ideas Challenge resulted in 15 submissions from researchers at the centers in Houston, Boston, and Detroit. “The entries had to be relevant to the technical and research challenges being addressed by the centers,” said Al Tahini. “The impressive submissions were reviewed and ranked with the top five teams presenting their ideas via videoconferencing to all employees. The researchers’ peers voted on the final ranking.” Presenting the awards, ASC president Basil Abul-Hamayel said: “It’s encouraging and exciting to see cross-center collaboration. Thank you for being energized about your work and in helping the enterprise achieving its research objectives. We look forward to more collaboration between the research centers.”   The winning entry was “Multipurpose Paper Diagnostics for Rapid On-Site Chemical Analysis” by Jason Cox and Hooisweng Ow of the Reservoir Engineering Team at the Aramco Research Center-Boston. Their idea uses low-cost, paper-based sensors — commonly used in the medical field for disease detection — for flow back analysis.    Currently, timely detection and quantification of reservoir variables — traditionally measured by downhole approaches, such as logging or tedious laboratory analyses of fluid — are both capital and time intensive.   “We believe the low-cost nature and portability of such an approach using these paper sensors could become an innovative technology for reservoir variable detection in the field,” said Cox. “Flow back analysis of reservoir fluids after a fracturing job has recently emerged as an analytical approach to understanding fracture network complexity.”   High-branched fracture networks contain a larger surface area to volume ratio which is in greater contact with injected fluid and exchanges various ions in the fluid. “By measuring the total salinity and ionic composition of fluid during flow back, we can deduce the fracture network complexity, and possibly, the future productivity of the well,” he said.   “Our ultimate goal is to develop a portable test kit for flowback analysis directly in field with a readout through a mobile-phone application,” added Ow. Harvard University is currently conducting similar research for disease detection. “Boston is a hotbed of research with many exciting things happening,” said Cox. “We were familiar with this Harvard research and wondered how it might have an oil field application. That gave birth to the idea. We have had a number of meetings with the Reservoir Engineering Team at the Aramco Research Center-Houston to hone in on specifics and how to best test our theory.” Ow said: “We want to be able to bring it to the field through collaboration with others at the Houston Research Center. It’s something that can be produced in the lab in short order. The testing isn’t done with tools, just fluids, so we hope to have a field test in about a year. And, since chemicals are not involved, this process can piggyback onto another field test, forgoing the need for its own specific field test.” All of the researchers welcomed the concept of the Ideas Challenge and the chance to work with their colleagues across the enterprise. “Aramco’s research program has given us the flexibility to think more, which is not always the case with industry research,” said Ow. Building on the enthusiasm of young Saudis, Saudi Aramco aims to lift the prospects of a new generation and the Kingdom as a whole with our massive Hasbah/Arabiyah mega-project. By tapping the Arabian Gulf’s supply of a cleaner-burning fuel and utilizing the company’s remarkable network and facilities, the endeavor will help replace liquid-based fuels as a source for power generation with feedstocks of nonassociated gas, allowing more crude oil to be sold and exported. The project provides a significant boost locally, adding jobs for Saudis and helping to elevate the skills of a new generation of employees, thereby raising the prospects of the company and Kingdom toward a brighter future. Young Saudis have been a key component in the success of the project. Confidently and enthusiastically carrying out their tasks and assignments, young employees have helped set the pace at this important mega-project. Discovered in 2008, the Hasbah and Arabiyah fields promise great prosperity for the Kingdom, as they will help Saudi Aramco produce large quantities of nonassociated gas — as much as 2.5 billion standard cubic feet per day (Bscfd) — that will be processed at the Wasit Gas Plant and then used to help power the Kingdom’s economic diversification and power needs.    The company’s ability to produce nonassociated gas is critical to the Kingdom’s goal to use the gas for domestic power generation. To meet this challenge, Saudi Aramco plans to nearly double our gas supplies over the next 10 years to reach more than 20 Bscfd. This will increase the share of gas — the least environmental polluting fuel — in the utility fuel mix to more than 70%, a percentage among the highest in the world.    These efforts also support domestic industry, which in turn, supports the local economy, said AbdulRahman M. Al-Qahtani, manager of the Northern Area Gas Producing Department (NAGPD). “By developing this project, we were able to provide job opportunities for Saudis,” Al-Qahtani said.   He noted that the unique design of the project provided significant challenges but the company worked to prepare and train the Saudi workforce for these new challenges. “In preparing our human resources, we had to develop training methods that met the unique design of the Hasbah/Arabiyah fields,” he said.   This started with the hiring of a number of young Saudis specifically for the project. These employees worked with engineers and helped in the preparation of the project’s initial and detailed designs.    In addition to building a qualified and skilled Saudi workforce, the participation of companies experienced in high-pressure production fields was instrumental in the operation of the Hasbah field. By bringing these companies into the project, the young Saudi employees were able learn from their expertise how to tackle challenges unique to these fields. In the deep waters of the Arabian Gulf, the strong, steady hands of Saudi Aramco’s young employees and a few experienced veterans defy complex conditions to achieve unparalleled feats of engineering. We meet just a few of those people who have worked diligently to bring the Hasbah/Arabiyah project to life:In a 30-minute address to attendees of the Oxford Energy Seminar in London, Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser outlined some key factors that will play a role in what he described as a “bright horizon” for the company, for the Kingdom, and even perhaps for the energy industry in general. Speaking on Saturday, September 24 to an audience of industrialists, managers, and other professionals involved in public or corporate decision-making in the field of energy at the 38th annual seminar, Nasser conceded that the energy industry can be “a volatile business” but was quick to add that, on many levels, challenging times can also be seen as an opportunity. He guided attendees through six main aspects of vital importance to the industry that he believes may offer not only relief during the current downturn in oil prices but can potentially pivot companies forward if handled with due diligence. The first of these factors, he said, revolves around cost management, efficiency, and competitiveness. The current downturn, he noted, should be seen as an opportunity for energy companies and service contractors “to scrutinize project fundamentals through a cost-competitiveness lens. “We’re finding significant opportunities to lower costs through improved project designs and greater standardization — all without compromising safety or environmental protection,” Nasser said.  The second factor he touched on as crucial to maintaining an even keel during turbulent times involves agility and flexibility so industry players “can rapidly adapt to market developments.” He noted that at Saudi Aramco, for example, the company has made short-term adjustments by deferring and stretching discretionary support projects while preserving core undertakings in both upstream and downstream. “That has helped us weather current market conditions while keeping our strategic programs and initiatives on track,” said Nasser. Financial robustness, he continued, is a third factor for the energy industry to heed, as it can both enable companies to weather the storm and also allow them to capitalize on attractive opportunities that sometimes present themselves in tough times. Nasser stressed the importance of developing a more diverse business portfolio as another key variable, noting that currently those companies with a strong presence in the refining, marketing and petrochemicals sectors “are performing distinctly better” than those without adequate diversification. With that in mind, Nasser said Saudi Aramco “continues to look at suitable inorganic growth opportunities in both the downstream and chemicals sectors” within the Kingdom, as well as internationally. Technology, led by research and development, is another main area that the industry can use as a springboard to enhance operations and efficiencies, said Nasser. While the temptation to scale back on this front often surfaces during turbulent times, Nasser reminded those in attendance that many challenging industry projects were once considered unfeasible until new technologies were developed and deployed. “Over time, technology has the potential to supercharge the productivity of our work,” said Nasser, pointing out that Saudi Aramco is working to achieve that goal by leveraging expertise through 11 research centers and technology offices spread across three continents. In highlighting the need for research and development expertise, Nasser touched on the final of the six factors he deems of vital importance to the industry today — global talent. “Without it, the other five factors become difficult, if not impossible, to activate because we require qualified people with multidisciplinary skills to deal with increasing complexities, new technologies and processes, and more ambitious targets,” said Nasser. “The answer is to make strategic investments in our own people at all stages of their careers, and to ensure that the pipeline of young talent continues to flow by working with universities, professional societies, and other educational entities.” Nasser also discussed Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030 in his speech, describing it as “a comprehensive blueprint for the Kingdom’s future” envisioning a strong, thriving Saudi Arabia built on a diversified and sustainable economy, and a nation capable of competing at a global level while offering full, high-quality employment to its people.   In summing up and looking at the overall market ahead, Nasser expressed a sense of optimism for the industry.   “We view current market challenges as a passing storm set against an otherwise bright horizon,” he said.   During his address, Nasser also paid tribute to the founder of the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies, Robert Mabro, who passed away last month. Describing him as “a larger-than-life figure” who was one of the keenest observers and sharpest commentators within the energy industry, Nasser said Mabro’s contributions are legendary.   “Today’s group,” Nasser said in addressing the audience directly, “follows a generation of oilmen and women who have benefited from Robert’s life work, and as each of you progresses in your respective careers, you will ensure that his legacy remains a living one.” Society of Petroleum Engineers Annual Technical Conference & Exhibition 2016: Opening Ceremony Keynote Speech by Amin H. Nasser, President & CEO, Saudi Aramco Your Highness Ahmed bin Said Al-Maktoum; Your Excellencies, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen – good morning. For more than 50 years, Saudi Aramco has worked closely with the Society of Petroleum Engineers as our industry’s foremost Upstream organization. So I’m delighted to join you for the official opening of the Annual Technical Conference & Exhibition. This year marks the 92nd edition – a testament in itself – and the first time ever in the Middle East. But most importantly, this event offers a timely challenge – better yet, an opportunity – to take the future into our own hands. The world’s energy picture is changing. And I believe incremental improvements won’t stand up to this evolving situation. Instead, we must proactively transform. Let’s first recap the energy landscape. World demand is on a steady, if moderate, course. While its pace has been tempered by energy-efficiency gains, demand will be impacted by global population growth expected to pass 9½ billion by 2050, and rising living standards in developing economies. Meanwhile, alternative energy sources are gaining ground. Yet renewables and emerging technologies like electric vehicles and fuel cells have technical, economic and infrastructure hurdles to pass. And that takes time. So for years to come, the call on energy will be met by oil and gas – and oil’s central position, especially in heavy transport and petrochemicals feedstock, will remain solid. But the oil and gas resources we have available, as well as new discoveries, are more challenging and more expensive to develop. At the same time, the present oil and gas fields are becoming increasingly mature and complex to operate. Environmental pressures are intensifying, amid misperceptions about our support of a cleaner environment. While the oil market has recovered from its most severe period, it’s still weak. With investments into new oil and gas capacity being cancelled and deferred around the world, supply growth has started falling, especially U.S. shale oil. Despite volatility, the market is heading toward rebalance, and prices are likely to strengthen with time. However, market volatility could remain with us for the near future. Meanwhile, the growing share of gas in the global energy mix is good news, especially for electric power generation. At Saudi Aramco, gas is a strategic resource. Aside from its clean credentials, gas represents less domestic dependence on oil and thus more to export; it’s also a focus of economic growth and job creation. In light of this backdrop, I’d say the industry’s present business and operating model is not up to the tasks ahead. This morning I’d like to discuss an integrated, four-point framework that can stand up to the energy transitions; policy, environmental, and regulatory trends; rising complexity of operations; and other variables at play. Point 1: Resilience The first point on our new business model is resilience. Unprecedented pressures face the industry in this persistent low oil-price, volatile environment – especially in terms of finances, cost and technology. As we see in the financial arena, companies with weak finances are facing serious difficulties, especially those that are smaller and over-leveraged. Strong financial capacity to pass through difficult patches is clearly important to future resilience. This recent market episode has demonstrated again that companies with strong downstream businesses perform better financially, especially during a downturn. So integration could contribute to resilience, for those whose situations favor downstream – and especially those who are good at it. As it stands, $1 trillion in costly, challenging and marginal resources may be delayed or canceled by the end of this decade. Yet long-term investments must be maintained to develop new capacity and keep technology on track. And that’s where greater efficiency and cost competitiveness come in: spotlighting things we can do better and cheaper, without compromise on safety or the environment. Continued investments in technology that boost efficiency and reduce costs, while improving reliable access to affordable, sustainable energy, are also critical to future success. Which leads me to our second framework dimension. Point 2: Research & High-End Technology Innovation has always been the Upstream sector’s driving force – an area no one knows better than the Society of Petroleum Engineers. In recent years, we have seen it take E&P to epic proportions: Opening new sources of hydrocarbon supply, such as shale oil and gas; Making exploration more effective, and improving recovery factors; Lightening our carbon footprint; Increasing profitability; and Broadly expanding our knowledge and capabilities. Clearly innovation can’t stand still – but it can’t plod along, either. We have to push the envelope. Saudi Aramco is doing just that as part of our strategic intent to become a global, integrated energy and chemicals company. We’re using an “open innovation model” to pursue R&D that complements our in-house resources by three other major vehicles. The first is strategic alliances with academic institutions, service companies and technology developers. Second, we have a total of 11 satellite research centers and technology offices on three continents giving us access to world-class talent and expertise in all corners of the world. And the third is the use of venture capital through our subsidiary, Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures, which invests in cutting-edge technology start-ups. We’re also leveraging technology to increase recovery in our oil reservoirs from the current average of 50 percent to 70 percent, and improve exploration to take our resource base to 900 billion barrels. Point 3: Top-Notch Talent But investing in technology and research to solve E&P’s big challenges also calls for investing in the people who will develop and use these tools. The alternative – putting the recruitment, development and retention of top talent on the back burner during a down cycle – will only come back to haunt us. Now is the time to re-boot our approach to human resources. Thanks to technology, the deep functional expertise of the past has given way to multi-disciplinary skills for cross-functional challenges. And the learning curve for staying on top of new technologies, methods and standards is getting shorter. To complicate things further, the drastic job-cuts during this downturn are making our industry unattractive to students and young workers – a situation whose impact could be felt far into the future. In fact, we’re already seeing enrollment in some petroleum engineering programs drop, and undergraduates changing majors. Unless all companies commit to dealing with cycles with an eye toward the long-term, we’re at risk of repeating the 1980s talent gap. Here I’d like to highlight some talent solutions we’re implementing at Saudi Aramco. To switch gears from traditional training to a more immersive, hands-on approach, we developed our Upstream Professional Development Center. The Center helps to compress the time for newer engineers and geoscientists to hit the ground running, while capturing the knowledge and experience of more senior professionals. In another paradigm shift, King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals collaborated with us to establish their new College of Petroleum Engineering & Geosciences. This pioneering college seeks the best undergraduate and graduate students to pursue state-of-the-art studies and research in a creative, multi-disciplinary environment that integrates classroom, lab and field. Students are challenged to achieve stretch targets with the overall objective of maximizing discovery and recovery of hydrocarbon resources. Its first cohort of students graduated last spring, and we expect research-oriented Ph.D. enrollment to grow 10-fold. Another urgent HR challenge facing the industry is bringing more women into the Upstream. Increasing women’s representation is a big focus for Saudi Aramco, both in our company, but also through programs that develop their business potential in general. This diversity objective especially resonates in the Kingdom, where women are highly educated but under-represented in the workforce. Point 4: Collaboration The first three aspects of industry transformation through a new model converge in point No. 4: And that’s collaboration. As oil companies, service providers, technology developers, higher education and others come together in strategic cooperation, it’s clear: resilience, technology and talent integrate and overlap. There are many areas in which the industry’s interests are aligned, and collaboration can pool resources, spread costs, and enhance the chances of success. Enhancing our industry’s reputation is one such area, where we have been historically lacking. Partners can help tell our story, and shed new light on our strides in sustainability. A recent example is the industry’s joint efforts to highlight its role in reducing carbon emissions and conventional pollutants, notably the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative declaration. Another area where collaboration can make a big difference is for oil companies, EPC contractors and service companies to radically improve project designs and cut costs. Evolving energy and environmental policies, and creating a level playing field among various energy sources, are also potential topics for strategic cooperation. Expanding SPE’s Mandate Now, what about SPE’s role in this transformed business model? SPE has done an outstanding job aiding the creation and sharing of technical information, and developing technical talent. I believe serious consideration should be given to expanding SPE’s mandate to include the study and creation of E&P 2.0 – especially where the industry has common goals, some of which I’ve highlighted today. Before concluding, let me briefly touch on Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030, as it pertains to a transformative new business and operating model. The Vision calls for the private sector to take the lead in developing and diversifying the national economy. Steps include: Reforms across a range of government policies and structures; Economic diversification, with the private sector taking the lead; Privatizing major national enterprises; Positioning Saudi Arabia as an international investment powerhouse; and Making the Kingdom a logistical hub linking Asia, Europe and Africa. As part of this program, Saudi Aramco will be listed on the Saudi Stock Exchange, Tadawal, and potentially outside, depending on studies currently underway. The current listing target is 2018. Ladies and gentlemen: Our sector is undergoing dramatic, complex shifts like never before. Merely adapting or reacting to change is only a stop-gap. These dynamics call for us to transform through a holistic process that spans every dimension, from technology and operations to human resources and organization. In my view, the new business model I’ve sketched out in part today can help us meet the challenges ahead, with: Greater resilience through better financial management, improved project designs, major cost reductions and other efficiencies; Research, technology and talent as our long-term success drivers; and Cooperation that multiplies strengths and resources toward mutual goals. And to strengthen the new model, we as an industry can work more closely with SPE both as a platform for discussion, and a catalyst for action. Innovating our business model in this way can deliver the reinvention needed in disruptive times – and position us even better for the recovery. Thank you.  Your Royal Highness(es), Your Excellencies, ladies and gentlemen: good evening. It’s a pleasure to be here today, and a privilege to begin my remarks by congratulating the organizers of the tenth Middle East Petrotech conference. Since the first event was organized in 1996, Petrotech has become our region’s premier refining and petrochemicals gathering, serving as an unrivaled arena for discussion, debate and knowledge-sharing among the Gulf’s downstream players. So while I thank the organizers of this year’s event for their kind invitation, I would also like to express the industry’s appreciation to a generation of men and women who have built this conference into what it is today. My friends, this is my second major speech of the day, as I addressed the opening session of the Society of Petroleum Engineers’ Annual Technical Conference & Exhibition in Dubai this morning. So within twelve hours I have an opportunity to reflect first on the future of the exploration and production sector, and now to share my views on our region’s downstream industry. If that’s not value chain integration, I don’t know what is! For some eight decades the Arabian Gulf has been a major player on the world’s upstream stage. So while our region’s E&P businesses are facing a more complex and challenging environment, they do so from a firm foundation and can leverage a global leadership position. By contrast, the Gulf’s petrochemical industry is more or less half as old—and therefore half as established—as its upstream counterpart. That means the sector is still in a state of considerable evolution and growth, with tremendous upside potential and numerous opportunities to expand its operations, enhance its portfolio, and strengthen its capacity to add and create value. So this evening I would like to focus on two main issues. The first is the vital importance of liquid feedstocks for the future of the petrochemicals industry in our region. The second and more complex topic is the ability of the region to grow its slice of the four-trillion-dollar global chemicals pie, and in so doing to create more meaningful employment opportunities for our economies and our societies. Let me begin, though, with the question of feedstock. As you all know, the supply of large quantities of additional ethane feedstock in our region is limited.However, nearly half of the world’s entire proven reserves of crude oil—roughly 800 billion barrels—are located right here in the Gulf. Taken together, this means that liquids in general, and oil in particular, are an attractive feedstock opportunity for the region’s petrochemical industry. But there is more to that opportunity than just considerations of supply. Liquids also offer a broader product slate than ethane, while liquids cracking also unlocks attractive opportunities in higher value specialty chemicals—a topic to which I will return later. And viewed holistically, more liquids cracking for petrochemicals would lock in larger oil sales volumes for our region’s producers over the long term. That is a critical consideration in light of greater energy efficiency and rising competition from other energy sources in a number of end-use sectors, including light transportation which has been a mainstay of strong oil demand growth for many decades. But the utilization of liquid feedstocks in the region’s petrochemical sector will only come into its own when we improve the economics of those feedstock supplies by developing purpose-built technologies. Specifically we need to focus on oil-to-chemicals processes, so that we can eventually bypass the refining step and convert crude oil directly into petrochemicals. At Saudi Aramco, we’ve adopted a two-phase approach to our research efforts in the field of liquid feedstocks. Phase One seeks to enhance existing liquid cracking technologies and maximize the yield of petrochemicals. This is an interim or incremental step, but it is an R&D opportunity that still offers significant operating benefits and considerable economic advantages for both our refining and petrochemicals assets. Phase Two, though, sets as its goal the elimination of the entire refining step in the process, so that we can introduce crude oil directly into the petrochemicals manufacturing process. This will not only save time and money, but will also eliminate the need for new facilities and expensive and extensive infrastructure development. We are currently working with SABIC on a joint feasibility study that may eventually lead to an integrated crude-to-chemicals complex in the Kingdom. We strongly believe that this is the shape of things to come for our own petrochemicals business, and indeed for the rest of the Gulf’s chemical sector simply because the benefits are so enormous. Which brings me to my second topic: enhancing the region’s share of both the worldwide chemicals market and its vast employment pool. Global chemicals currently represent a market in excess of four trillion dollars, and that market is set to expand substantially in the decades ahead: the OECD predicts the global chemicals market will grow three percent per year through 2050, with sales in developing economies growing more than twice as fast as in the developed world. By the same token, the world’s chemical, pharmaceutical, and rubber and tire industries together employ approximately 20 million people. While there can be no doubt that our region has made significant progress in petrochemicals manufacturing from a very modest start in the 1970s, the fact remains that our region’s petrochemicals revenues are less than 100 billion dollars, or two-and-a-half percent of the world total. The proportion is even worse when it comes to jobs, however. The regional chemicals industry employs a little more than 150,000 people, and accounts for less than one percent of the global number of jobs in the chemicals and related industries. Considering the Gulf’s endowment of oil and gas, as well as our geographic proximity to major markets in Europe and Asia, both those figures should be much, much higher. And given the acute need for revenue generation and job creation in the region, there is no question that petrochemicals must play a more substantial role in our economies. So, what do we need to do in order to bridge the massive gap between present reality and future potential? In my view, there are four key strategies that would help us create more enduring wealth from chemicals while also generating greater employment opportunities for our citizens. The first strategy centers on enhancing our existing value chains by producing more differentiated, higher value commodity petrochemicals, along with their derivatives. At Saudi Aramco, that includes increasing the integration of our refining and petrochemicals assets, and becoming a top-three player in ethylene, paraxylene and benzene. Second, we should pursue the conversion of commodity petrochemicals into higher value products—that is, we need to extend the local value chain into manufacturing. The GCC’s petrochemicals sector has taken steps to move further downstream by expanding its manufacturing capabilities in the area of commodity materials. But the sector still has significant opportunities for growth into segments of intermediate chemicals and end-product applications. There is considerable value to be realized in these areas, but just as important is their potential to create new jobs and meaningful career opportunities. The third key strategy takes us away from commodities and into specialty chemicals, and involves growing the manufacturing of these higher value products. At the moment, the region’s share of the global market for specialty chemicals does not exceed two percent. That represents a huge lost opportunity when you consider that in Germany and Japan, specialty chemical production generates twice the value of commodity-based chemicals. This is clearly the richest and sweetest slice of the pie, and one we should endeavor to grow. The fourth strategy links to the third, in that we need to derive even more value from those specialty chemicals by building higher value downstream manufacturing and conversion industries, thus magnifying and multiplying the benefits of that production. Aside from domestic and regional demand, there are large and attractive export markets for these products, and here is where the Gulf’s prime geographic position—at the crossroads of Europe, Asia and Africa—can be highly leveraged to significant positive effect. Taken together, these strategies will help to create greater value for our economies, spawn new industries which will help us reach our goal of greater diversification, and create significant opportunities for the well-paying, highly productive jobs our societies require. At Saudi Aramco, we’ve embraced these strategies, and are putting them into practice with tangible results. Our Sadara and Petro Rabigh projects are both examples of each of the four strategies that I just outlined. They produce differentiated commodity petrochemicals as well as a slate of specialty petrochemicals, and have created conversion and manufacturing opportunities in their adjacent industrial parks. In line with the Kingdom’s goals to help diversify the local economy and create meaningful employment opportunities, we will continue to attract further investments into these value parks and expedite implementation of investor projects. For example, 29 tenants have already signed agreements at the Rabigh PlusTech Park associated with Petro Rabigh, while five new firms were identified as potential tenants for Petro Rabigh phase two. Likewise, the Sadara team continues to work with the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu‘ to develop the site for 32 projects already approved by the Ministry of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources. Of course, I don’t want to downplay the difficulties and challenges that stand in the way of creating the sort of integrated, differentiated regional petrochemical ecosystem I have described. First of all, we need to see more indigenous development of high-end technologies. Licensing agreements can take us some way down the path, but to create true competitive advantage and a sustainable leadership position in the industry, we need to develop our own technologies, processes and products. Furthermore, while implementing these four key strategies across the region will create numerous job opportunities, they also require qualified technical talent to fill these positions. That translates into a sizable training and development challenge, and one whose solution must be expedited if we are not to lose ground to rapidly expanding petrochemical industries in places like China and India. Yes, we need technology and capital investments, but we also need talent—which actually highlights the promising opportunities for the many young people I see in the audience this evening and who will be attending this week’s conference. Distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen: in closing let me say that the Gulf petrochemical industry has come a long way over the last four decades, and its future prospects are bright indeed. But that immense potential will not fulfill itself, nor will our numerous opportunities come to fruition without hard work, dedication and determination. As it has for twenty years, Petrotech has brought together the best and brightest of our downstream sector, and I believe that the people in this room have a fundamental role to play in adopting and adapting the four key strategies I have discussed tonight. If we succeed—if you succeed—our regional petrochemical sector will realize its full potential, and in so doing will produce greater prosperity for our economies, our societies and our nations. Thank you, and allow me to wish each of you an informative and enlightening Petrotech experience.Ahmed Alkhunaini, representative director of Aramco Asia-Japan, and Kazuo Hotate, executive vice president of the University of Tokyo (UTokyo), recently signed a Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) on Global Solar Plus Initiative (GS+I) in Tokyo. The move followed significant achievements during the initiative’s first phase in the development of a global solar energy system that strives to help tackle social challenges and drive sustainable growth worldwide. The initiative, launched in 2010 by UTokyo and two other key organizations, focuses on building a sustainable global energy system that provides adequate and stable energy products. It also draws support from major Japanese corporations with which it has entered the second phase in Saudi Arabia following the successful, first five-year development period. Designed to improve energy efficiency and encouraged by the Japanese government, the GS+I initiative plans to organize a consortium of related Japanese companies to carry out research and experiments based on solar energy in the Kingdom. GS+I covers a wide range of subjects such as chemistry, material sciences and policy initiatives, which are supplemental to Aramco’s business development and research and development.  At the signing ceremony, Alkhunaini said, “I hope that the program will serve as a catalyst for future collaboration between UTokyo and Saudi Aramco, and that such collaborations will generate various possible opportunities for both Japan and Saudi Arabia to benefit from for years to come — a solution to the issue of sustainable growth — the very issue which is on the global map today.” “This is the first step for our comprehensive mutual beneficial cooperation and we do hope our long-term relationship in the future,” Hotate said. Hailed as the first national university in Japan, UTokyo enjoys a reputation as one of Asia’s top academic institutions. It has produced ten Nobel Prize winners since its establishment in 1877. The global upstream oil and gas industry needs to move away from a “business as usual” approach and capitalize on opportunities to transform itself to be at the forefront of the world’s energy industry. Speaking at the annual SPE and ATCE conference in Dubai, President and Chief Executive Officer, Amin H. Nasser delivered the keynote address titled, “E&P 2.0: A New Business Model for a New Era,” and said, “The oil and gas industry has a long history of navigating challenges – but today’s pressures are unprecedented. In the current low-price, volatile environment, the “business as usual” practices can’t stand up to increasingly complex financial, technology and talent issues. Cutting edge technologies and innovation have helped to make energy more abundant and sustainable as well as provide the resilience that’s required during challenging times.” Nasser said the energy landscape is currently witnessing world demand on a steady course which augured well for the industry. “While its pace has been tempered by energy-efficiency gains, demand will be impacted by global population growth expected to pass 9½ billion by 2050, and rising living standards in developing economies,” said Nasser. “Presently, oil and gas fields are becoming increasingly mature and complex to operate. Environmental pressures are intensifying, amid misperceptions about our support of a cleaner environment. In light of this backdrop, if we look at the industry’s present business and operating model and ask if it’s up to the tasks ahead, I’d say the answer is no,” he said. The call on energy will be met by oil and gas – and oil’s central position, especially in heavy transport and petrochemicals feedstock, will remain solid and central for years to come. However, Nasser cautioned that the oil and gas resources currently available, as well as new discoveries, are more challenging and more expensive to develop. He said an integrated strategy can help lift the upstream industry, enabling it to adapt to the energy transitions; environmental, policy and regulatory trends. Nasser said the biggest challenge was the need for resilience to industry downturns. Industry players must possess strong financial capacity to ride through challenging times and to maintain long-term investments to develop new capacity while continuing to innovate for better efficiencies. “As it stands, $1 trillion in costly, challenging and marginal resources may be delayed or canceled by the end of this decade. Yet, long-term investments must be maintained to develop new capacity and keep technology on track,” Nasser added. The second point which interlocks with resilience is technology where the research and development, as well as innovative capabilities of industry players have always been the upstream’s driving force. “Clearly innovation can’t stand still – but it also can’t just plod along. We have to push the envelope. Saudi Aramco is doing just that as part of our strategic intent to become a global, integrated energy and chemicals company – which places a huge growth emphasis on an area where we were already strong,” he said. Nasser wrapped up the final two points of the strategy – talent and collaboration as being the human touch and momentum enabler which completes the package. He said that investing in technology and research to solve E&P’s big challenges also calls for investing in the people who will develop and use these tools. One prime example he cited was the collaboration between Saudi Aramco and King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals to establish their new College of Petroleum Engineering & Geosciences. Nasser was among the top global oil and gas industry executives and technical experts who spoke at the event, held at the Dubai World Trade Centre from 26–28 September. More than 500 Saudi Aramco delegates from the upstream business line and other organizations attended the event.Saudi Aramco has successfully responded to a minor fire incident at its oil terminal facility in Ras Tanura at about 9 am today.    Emergency fire services have fully contained the fire. Workers in the facility have been evacuated.   It is reported that eight (8) workers have sustained injuries as a result of the fire, including six contractors and two employees. The injured have received medical treatment.   The cause of the fire is not yet known. The Company will conduct a thorough investigation to determine the cause. Saudi Aramco oil and gas operations were not impacted as a result of the incident.   The Company will release additional information as it becomes available.   For further inquiries: international.media@aramco.com    Last year, Japan and Saudi Arabia celebrated the 60th anniversary of official diplomatic relations. Over the course of those 60 years, both countries have invested in each other’s economic growth, technology development, infrastructure improvement, knowledge enhancement, and cultural enrichment. During that time, Japan has grown in importance to become Saudi Arabia’s third-largest trading partner, importing $45.4 billion in petroleum products and exporting $7.5 billion in finished goods. The amount of foreign trade between our two countries reached a new high of $56 billion in 2015. The Kingdom supplies Japan with over 35% of its crude oil, making Saudi Arabia a key pillar of the country’s energy security architecture. Many prominent Japanese companies have looked to the Kingdom for investment and business partnerships. For instance, Sumitomo Chemical is a joint venture partner with Saudi Aramco in Petro Rabigh, an integrated refining and petrochemicals facility on Saudi Arabia’s west coast. Showa Shell is a Saudi Aramco joint venture partner in Solar Frontier, an alternative energy business based in Japan. Other Japanese firms — such as Yokogawa with their research center in Dhahran Techno Valley and Isuzu with their truck manufacturing facility — have also found the Kingdom an attractive partner and investment environment. In addition, more than 100 Japanese companies are successfully operating in Saudi Arabia today. Japan’s economic roadmap is founded on the principles of The 4th Industrial Revolution that promote the use of digital technologies, data exchange, advanced robotics, and artificial intelligence to enhance manufacturing automation and facilitate human-to-human and human-to-machine connections. Vision 2030 is the Kingdom’s plan to continuing growing its core industries while accelerating new economic sectors such as the digital economy, renewable energy, services, and tourism. Vision 2030 and Japan’s 4th Industrial Revolution are complementary development strategies. They intersect at crucial points that encourage Saudi/Japanese investment in sectors the Kingdom has identified for growth and development. To expand its manufacturing base, Saudi Arabia is building conversion parks in close proximity to its chemicals facilities. This will spur abundant opportunities in the manufacturing of tier 2 products. Communications and information technology (CIT) is an essential component of Saudi Arabia’s advancing economy and a sector where Japan is a global leader. The opportunity to integrate high-efficiency CIT into industrial robotics is a natural fit for new local manufacturing sectors seeking to leverage on-shore chemicals feedstocks into finished and semi-finished goods. Targeted growth in non-oil sectors encompasses infrastructure projects, including rail and marine, mining and mineral production, telecommunications and IT, industrial manufacturing, and automotive manufacturing. Japanese companies are already partnering with the Kingdom in some of these sectors. Both countries can benefit from further exchange of technical expertise and world-scale project management capabilities in these and other sectors. Solar energy, in particular, is a key area of overlap where the Kingdom is keen to expand existing partnerships to leverage Japanese renewable technology to build power generation capacity and domestic manufacturing of alternative energy systems and equipment. Japan’s private sector can certainly complement and leverage the Kingdom’s Vision 2030 for mutual benefit. But Vision 2030 is about more than just business; it is also driving value in intangible connections through people-to-people cross-cultural exchange. Those exchanges can build lasting bridges of prosperity for Japan and Saudi Arabia, and Saudi Arabia hopes to create more of these connections between the two countries. Aramco’s MOUs with Japan A new agreement that will see both parties explore the potential of developing a plant for producing corrosion-resistant alloy pipes and tubular goods in Saudi Arabia, and to study opportunities in areas such as manufacturing, chemicals, and new technology industries, as well as human resource development.  An amendment to an existing MoU to further enhance the liquefied petroleum gas (LP Gas) emergency relief program introduced in 2009. The purpose of the LP Gas emergency relief program is to provide, as emergency relief items, gas canisters and portable gas stoves to populations affected by large-scale natural disasters in Japan, such as the tragic Fukushima earthquake and tsunami in 2011. A new agreement to conduct a joint feasibility study (under the auspices of the National Industrial Cluster Development Program) with Showa Shell and Solar Frontier for the development of a solar photovoltaic (PV) panel manufacturing plant in Saudi Arabia. The plant would have an annual nameplate capacity of 570 megawatts per year.  MoUs with three major Japanese financial institutions to facilitate foreign direct investment into Saudi Arabia, thereby contributing to Saudi Aramco’s — and the Kingdom’s — investments and growth. A new agreement to further strengthen energy sector cooperation calling for both countries to endeavor to pursue new and emerging areas that will increase bilateral trade and investments, including cooperation in the area of clean energy to develop and utilize cleaner fossil fuel technology through the application of optimal available mechanisms and practices.  Under this agreement, Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) authorized a renewed partnership with the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation (JOGMEC) for usage of the Okinawa commercial crude oil storage facility. This extends Saudi Aramco’s agreement with JOGMEC for utilization of the crude oil storage facilities in Okinawa and includes a planned storage capacity increase from 6 million to 8 million barrels. Both China and Saudi Arabia have emerged as global powers in their own right. China is an engine of the global economy and has created the world’s largest manufacturing economy. While the Kingdom has experienced unprecedented economic and social development that has led to the creation of modern infrastructure and world-scale industrialization based on a core of oil, gas, chemicals, and minerals. Though Saudi Arabia and China are different in many ways, each has recently developed ambitious blueprints for the sustainable development of their respective countries: the Belt and Road Strategic Initiative for China, and Vision 2030 for Saudi Arabia. Tactically, these two programs are distinctly different and address challenges unique to the two nations. But strategically, they are similar in that they both put forward transformative yet achievable initiatives that capitalize on areas of national strength for the benefit of their populations. There are many areas of overlap between the two where partnership and collaboration can support both countries in achieving their national goals — and in ways that produce more impactful results for each by acting together. Already in Saudi Arabia, more than 160 Chinese companies are operating in such fields as engineering, procurement, construction, telecommunications, infrastructure development, and others. One Chinese company, Sinopec, is Saudi Aramco’s joint venture partner in YASREF, a 400,000 barrel per day, full-conversion refinery in Yanbu’ on the Red Sea Coast. Alternately, a growing array of Chinese goods is available in the Saudi marketplace, from trucks and automobiles to consumer goods, home appliances, and information technology equipment. Vision 2030, coupled with the One Belt, One Road initiative, presents new opportunities for China and Saudi Arabia to go beyond the current level of collaboration and partnership and contribute even more to the development of the two countries. First and foremost is the opportunity to ensure China has the energy resources it needs to implement the phases of the Belt and Road Initiative. Saudi Aramco’s world-class integrated refinery and petrochemical complex in Fujian Province currently supplies local Chinese markets with refined products and chemicals. Further economy-powering downstream investments are also possible in southwest China. Saudi Aramco is also positioned to assist in the development of crude oil storage facilities capable of helping build China’s necessary strategic petroleum reserves. Geographically, Saudi Arabia is strategically placed as a manufacturing and logistics hub, and as a transportation corridor to African, Asian, European, and Arabian Gulf markets. Vision 2030 is prompting significant investment activities and major infrastructure projects in Saudi Arabia such as the Jazan Economic City, the King Adbullah Port expansion, the King Abdullah Economic City, and the Ras al-Khair Industrial Port development. All of these, and others, present a landscape of exciting new investment opportunities. Knowledge, research, and innovation are essential to sustaining economic growth and vitality. Saudi Arabia and China are currently partnering in the development of technologies to produce more efficient, lower carbon petroleum energy to power prosperity for billions of people around the world. Saudi Arabia inhabits a prime location for the generation of solar power. One area of particular interest in Vision 2030 that is particularly well suited to collaboration and partnership with Chinese research and technology institutions is the development of clean alternative energy from solar and nuclear sources. Traditional sectors are also areas of growth targeted by Vision 2030. Opportunities exist for Chinese companies in areas such as refining and chemicals, advanced manufacturing, and heavy industry, as well as mining and minerals processing. A major component of the Belt and Road initiative is infrastructure development, including overland road and rail routes, as well as oil and gas pipeline corridors. Saudi Aramco’s pipeline, technical, and project-management expertise can aid China in creating the infrastructure to transport essential energy supplies from coastal areas to the interior and help China achieve its long-term energy needs. At the same time, pipeline projects in Saudi Arabia open prime opportunities for Chinese construction companies. China and Saudi Arabia have developed exciting, challenging, and complementary roadmaps to achieve a more prosperous future for their citizens. Through strategic partnerships and targeted investments on the part of both countries, each can help the other achieve their national development goals. Aramco’s MOUs with China A new framework agreement that offers growth and business development opportunities for both companies through downstream investment and technology collaboration, including, Saudi Aramco’s equity participation in CNPC’s refining and retail business, and assets associated with CNPC’s refineries in Yunnan and Guangxi. A new agreement which charges both companies to seek investment opportunities in the energy and chemical sectors in the Kingdom including an assessment of the feasibility of using Saudi Aramco’s crude oil grades as feedstock for ChemChina’s refineries, supplying crude oil supplies to ChemChina refineries through a term Crude Oil Sales Agreement (COSA) that will begin 2017, as well as a range of solar and technology applications. A cooperation framework agreement to explore various investment opportunities in Saudi Arabia that could result in the first independent power production model in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, potentially elevating the efficiency of Saudi Arabia’s power grid and opening the public sector to the effectiveness and efficiencies of private partnerships. A new agreement to leverage their expertise and insights for strategy development, evaluation, and the scouting of new opportunities in China, including potential investments in China’s downstream oil sector such as refining, marketing and storage, crude and refined oil products trading, and equipment materials and components sourcing. A new agreement to enable foreign direct investment by Chinese businesses in the Jazan Economic City, and potentially in other key transport and logistics hubs In Saudi Arabia, allowing Chinese businesses to benefit from the ideally positioned logistics hub of Jazan, and the capable and ready labor markets in Saudi Arabia to participate in tomorrow’s next economic success story. A new agreement to examine further strengthening energy sector cooperation and increased bilateral trade and investments in areas such as energy security, investments in integrated refining and oil-derivatives projects, energy technologies and innovation, renewables, and power and atomic energy sectors. Under the agreement, China and Saudi Arabia agree for the first time to explore cooperation for strategic oil storage in China, enhancing the country’s energy security. The cooperation agreement calls for joint studies into the utilization of existing crude oil storage facilities in China, as well as joint research and training related to storage, associated technologies, and distribution. A royal delegation led by HRH Deputy Crown Prince Muhammad Bin Salman convened a series of strategically important bilateral meetings in China and Japan between August 28 and September 9, the results of which promise to produce long-term positive impacts for the Kingdom. The purpose of the visit was to unveil Saudi Vision 2030 to Chinese and Japanese government and business leaders and to discuss the opportunities it affords for further partnership, collaboration, and investment for their respective countries. The week’s events consisted of highly organized and structured business forums, ministerial events, negotiations, customer meetings, agreement signings, and media interviews. Many of the Kingdom’s ministers, including the Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, participated in the Asia visit. “I’m confident that as we seek to realize Saudi Vision 2030 and to forge an even more prosperous tomorrow for our citizens, the spirit of partnership and the shared values between our nations and our peoples will further flourish in the years to come, while offering tremendous new opportunities to Japanese and Chinese companies and investors,” said Al-Falih. Saudi Aramco’s president and CEO, Amin Nasser, was also an active contributor to the proceedings, along with a number of other Saudi business leaders.Each delegation member helped advance Saudi Vision 2030 by expanding and deepening existing relationships, creating new partnerships, and structuring agreements to open up new areas of cooperation. Several Saudi companies and government entities signed Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs) with Chinese and Japanese businesses during their time in Asia. Vision 2030, launched by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-’Aziz Al Sa’ud and conceived under the leadership of the Deputy Crown Prince, is a sweeping blueprint for extending Saudi Arabia’s economic success. Asia was the destination of the royal delegation because China and Japan each possess skills and capabilities that has propelled them to the status of global leader in many sectors — sectors which have also been identified within Vision 2030 as areas ripe for growth within Saudi Arabia. And, like Saudi Arabia, both China and Japan have developed ambitious programs for the sustainable economic development of their respective countries. The intersection of all of these elements creates the conditions for promising synergies in areas of mutual benefit for all three countries. Traditionally, through its business dealings, Saudi Aramco has been the main link between Saudi Arabia and both China and Japan. The company has provided the Chinese and Japanese economies with energy security while structuring joint venture opportunities in some of its major projects for companies from both countries. Saudi Aramco has also built cultural bridges by sending many of its young people to study in the region and by establishing affiliate offices in Beijing and Tokyo. The Kingdom is increasingly becoming the destination for foreign investment for both Chinese and Japanese firms. Saudi Vision 2030 is the launch pad that will usher in a new era of expanded relations between not only the company and its two largest customers, but also between the Kingdom and its two largest trading and investment partners in Asia. Saudi Aramco has a critical role to play in helping the Kingdom achieve Vision 2030. By facilitating strategic foreign investment in the energy sector, contributing to increased localization of supplies and services, and enabling new and emerging industries locally through investments in industrial infrastructure ecosystems, Saudi Aramco continues to do its part to support the Kingdom and its citizens.Delivering keynote remarks on the opening day of Offshore Northern Seas (ONS) 2016, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Upstream Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani highlighted resilience as the key to navigating the transitional phase that global energy industry is currently experiencing. Underlining enhanced cost efficiency and competitiveness as crucial to industry endurance, Al Qahtani said, “A downturn is prime-time for oil companies, engineering, procurement and construction firms and service providers to look at project fundamentals through the cost-competitive lens. “Adapting improved business processes and even business models, partnering with service contractors, and working with suppliers to capture savings are all proven belt-tightening approaches,” he added. While high efficiency and best practice are still fundamental in achieving high-end performance, Al Qahtani emphasized that innovation is as important as ever to the industry’s ability to re-invent and seek continuous improvement. “Not long ago, many of the challenging projects discussed at this conference were considered unfeasible — until they were unlocked by technology,” he noted. Preceding the ONS main event was the ONS Summit, held in co-operation with the Munich Security Conference and attended by 60 key leaders, including Saudi Aramco leadership and representatives from other prominent energy industry companies and relevant government officials. The summit was a platform for discussions on the industry, primarily its security challenges and the associated geopolitics. In addition, Al Qahtani led bilateral meetings on behalf of Saudi Aramco with various counterparts, carrying forward discussions initiated at the summit. Joining the Upstream business at ONS was the corporate venture arm, Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures (SAEV), with its expanding portfolio of venture partners also taking part in the exhibit. SAEV, which has venture partnerships across the world, was referred to by Al Qahtani in his address and was also mentioned to the Norwegian delegation, alongside the core business, during their visit to the Saudi Aramco exhibit on the opening afternoon. Headed by HRH Crown Prince Haakon of Norway, the delegation was received by Al Qahtani, ahead of a briefing from Aramco Overseas president Fahad Al-AbdulKareem. The official delegation, which included Norwegian Prime Minister Erna Solberg and the country’s Energy Minister Tord Lien, underlined Saudi Aramco’s prominence in global energy and the strength of industry relations between Saudi Arabia and Norway. One demonstration of this strength has been investments made by SAEV in energy startups both in Norway’s capital Oslo, and in its oil and gas hub, Stavanger — home of the ONS event. The startups based in Stavanger — Target Intervention, Sekal, Cannseal, Geomec — hosted Al Qahtani and Al-AbdulKareem at their respective facilities, updating them on the progress of projects with Saudi Aramco, discussing next steps and providing live demonstrations of their technologies. The inclusion of SAEV as part of Saudi Aramco’s presence at ONS gave exposure to a part of the business which is not only growing but also has strong traction in Europe, where there are large numbers of high-tech startups and an appetite for corporate venture. As for ONS, the event remains a strong draw, receiving over 60,000 visitors despite the industry downturn. The conference element in particular, for which Saudi Aramco was the main sponsor, saw high numbers of attendees with more than 500 presentations on both technical and executive levels. “It is important that Saudi Aramco continues to position itself at the heart of discussions which shape our industry,” said Al-AbdulKareem. “Europe remains at the forefront of industry advancements and Aramco offices based in the region remain committed to extracting value from our locations here.”Experts in unconventional oil and gas gathered at the Unconventionals Resources Technology Conference (URTeC) in San Antonio, Texas, in early August to exchange new technologies and best practices in the exploration and production of unconventional oil and gas. The annual conference provides an opportunity to take stock of the current industry downturn and the future outlook for unconventional reservoirs, particularly in the United States. Saudi Aramco has been a sponsor, exhibitor, and technical session participant since the conference debuted in 2013. Organized by the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG), the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), and the Society of Exploration Geophysicists (SEG), the conference attracted 2,400 professionals, with nearly 600 technical presentations divided into 13 themes that ranged from geomechanics to production performance and well completion, and stimulation practices. Aramco participation adds an international dimension to the conference, and this year, six technical presentations illustrated the company’s continued advancement of the company’s unconventionals program and the strength of research and development activities related to shale and tight gas. A well-attended session at the conference featured Saudi Aramco’s Mohammed Al Duhailan, a geophysicist on the Jafurah Emerging Unconventional Asset Team, who provided an understanding of petroleum system chemistry from Jurassic source rocks to produce hydrocarbons. The paper, “Differential Maturation, Generation, and Expulsion of Petroleum: Causes and Effects on Jurassic Unconventional Resources in Saudi Arabia,” examined source rock behavior and mapping of various factors to ultimately identify sweet spots for shale gas potential in the Arabian Basin. A second paper from Al Duhailan, “Integrated Analysis of Abnormal Pressures in Source Rock,” attracted the same following of attendees interested in Aramco’s research in modeling petroleum generation pressures that build up in source rock. Pressure models have implications for overall exploration and production strategy, he noted. A trio of papers from petroleum engineers at the Aramco Research Center- Houston dealt with a variety of topics. Onur Balan presented “Optimization of Well and Stage Spacing for Tight/Shale Gas Reservoirs” during a standing room only e-poster session. Jilin Zhang related mineralogy and rock texture to shale rock strength during his discussion, and Jinhong Chen examined pore fluid behavior in a session dedicated to flow behavior from nanopores to reservoir scale. Terry Hagiwara from Aramco Services Company (ASC) Upstream contributed to the technical program by illustrating the relationship between permeability and formation factors during his talk “Predicting Permeability Anisotropy from Resistivity Anisotropy.” During URTeC, ASC Staffing Services met with professionals in geology, geophysics, petrophysics, reservoir engineering, and geomechanics who were interested in learning more about the company’s unconventionals progress and program. Saudi Aramco and its Research and Development (R&D) collaboration partner, JGC Catalysts and Chemicals — a leading catalyst developer and manufacturer in Japan — have been awarded the 2015 International Technology Exchange Award by the Japan Petroleum Institute (JPI). Each year, JPI honors the best scientists, projects and institutions. Recognized in Japan and worldwide for the quality they represent, the JPI awards, including Best Society, Best Paper, Best Technology Progress, Best Incentive Project, and International Technology Exchange Awards, appreciate the scientific contributions made in petroleum and relevant fields.  During a visit to Japan to attend the Saudi Aramco and JCCP joint symposium on “Unlocking the Potential of Fuel to Enable Energy Savings and Emissions Reductions,” which was held in Tokyo, Saudi Aramco chief technology officer Ahmad O. Al Khowaiter received the JPI International Technology Exchange Award on behalf of the company. “I am extremely pleased with the work we’ve done on CAN-15, creating a catalyst that’s the first of its kind,” said Al Khowaiter. “I look forward to the many commercialization opportunities this technology will avail.”, he said.  The winning technology “Hydrocracking Catalyst for Heavy Oil Mixed with Deasphalted Oil” was developed jointly between Saudi Aramco R&DC (Oil Upgrading R&D Division) and JGC Catalysts and Chemicals Ltd., with the support of Japan Cooperation Center Petroleum (JCCP).  The collaboration began in 2007 to develop a catalyst system for the Riyadh Refinery hydrocracking unit, targeting extended catalyst life while increasing or maintaining distillate yields and quality. The R&D phase of the project was completed in 2010, with four of more than 80 potential catalysts developed and identified for scaleup and commercialization. The developed catalyst, Novel Heavy Oil Hydrocracking Catalyst (CAN-15), was deployed at the Riyadh Refinery hydrocracking unit. It has been in operation for two years, and its performance exceeded expectations yielding additional valuable distillate volumes.Joint effort with global aspirations on sand management and desert environment protection: Tottori University’s Arid Land Research Center (ALRC) and Aramco Asia-Japan signs agreement on dryland research collaboration. The collaboration is in recognition of achievements of ALRC's in the field of dryland studies and scientific development covering different regions around the world. Aramco, as a part of its Community Social Responsibility initiatives, will be supporting ALRC’s research, information dissemination and capacity building in fields of integrated desertification control, environmental protection, and agricultural production. Both parties are also looking into working together to promote an international network and cooperation among researchers that include possible collaboration with Saudi Aramco’s Environmental Protection Department. At the signing ceremony, Alkhunaini touched upon Saudi Aramco’s long history of efforts to effectively manage sand and protect desert animals such as the endangered oryx: “I hope not only Japan, but also other countries in the world with drylands, and furthermore, Saudi Arabia, can benefit from this new bridge built now, connecting Aramco and the center.”, he said.  More than 30 sand dunes are nestled along the shoreline of Japan. The sand dune in Tottori, where the institute is located, spreads 16 kilometers from east to west and 2.4 kilometers from south to north. The dune was formed by sand carried by wind and sea waves from the mountains to the sea by river and deposited along the coast.As a part of Japan’s agricultural development in sand dunes, scientific projects to tackle the two major issues — sand drifting and irrigation — started back in the early 20th century at an organizational level, and then progressed gradually to the current ALRC. In view of the growing global desertification concerns, the center later shifted and expanded its scope to research of arid lands on a global basis. “We are very honored and excited to be recognized. This undertaking will help galvanize the exchange between two entities with a shared mission, namely studies of dryland,” said Ryota Teshima, president of Tottori University. How many times have you had a great idea but never quite managed to put it into action? Or worse still, had a great idea but saw the vision turned into a reality by someone else? These thought-provoking questions were recently addressed in three sessions held across Saudi Aramco facilities, which were collaboratively organized by the Leadership Development Division (LDD), Management & Professional Development Department (M&PDD), Ibtikar Innovation Board and the IT Future Center. The sessions featured an inspiring keynote presentation from visiting Canadian inventor, Brent Baier, CTO and founder of Iron Will Innovations Inc. Baier shared the story of how he turned his peregrine glove system into reality. His story is one of empowerment, risk taking, collaboration and determination. Baier’s story hit the hearts of many inventors in the audience as he shared lessons learned through the journey of innovation and entrepreneurship. His perseverance and determination led to his product being sold in over 50 countries, showcased in the blockbuster movie “Pacific Rim,” and furthermore becoming the preferred reference by NASA in the wearable technology industry. The keynote was followed by an insightful panel discussion with contributions from Saudi Aramco’s and Saudi Arabia’s innovation stakeholders. These key stakeholders included: Ali Al Qahtani, Ibtikar board secretary; Steven Morgan, Intellectual Property (IP) counsel from Law; Adnan Al Asaly, Technology Oversight and Coordination (TOC) Group; Trey Goede, Venture Capital Group of Wa’ed (the Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center); and a well-known Saudi entrepreneur Fatima Batook, CEO, TIMA® Company Ltd.  The first panel question set the scene to further explore innovation at Saudi Aramco and Saudi Arabia, being positioned around Saudi Vision 2030. The panel highlighted why innovation is more critical than ever, now that Saudi Arabia is on a new trajectory of growth and development. Saudi Vision 2030 was highlighted as a roadmap that will see the Kingdom transformed from a state dependent on oil, to a much more productive, and proactive country for economic growth and development. The panel discussed how this will set a path to raise the level of productivity to accomplish structural, economic and social changes within the Kingdom. Panelists also agreed that innovation is an essential investment for every company. This was highlighted by a quote from Al Qahtani, who said, “The key common denominator of the most successful companies worldwide is a focus on innovation, their ability to reinvent themselves, adapt to a changing business environment, customer demands and competition. With this in mind, Saudi Aramco is adopting industry best practices to establish and improve an innovation program that will be an integral part of our culture and to empower employees to innovate.” Panalists Morgan and Al Asaly shared a Saudi Aramco story of innovation success, which clearly demonstrated how great ideas are energized and turned into reality. This success story involved one of the panelists, Batook. They explained how they had successfully licensed five patents from the Saudi Aramco IP portfolio to Batook’s company, and how she is taking these patents to the market. Batook is now building a smart e-shirt for the Kingdom. Al Asaly said, “Moving this technology forward to the market is only the beginning toward a full-fledged intelligent sensing solution. The inventor and team have clearly demonstrated their innovative capabilities in executing an idea that can create an impact. TOC is pleased to commercialize this technology as a way to diversify its portfolio and to contribute to local content.” Furthermore, Morgan highlighted the success of this licensing and commercialization by stating “Jack Welch said ‘leaders create a vision, articulate the vision, passionately own the vision and relentlessly drive it to completion.’ That is what this Saudi Aramco inventor did in developing a technology, which is now licensed to TIMA® Company Ltd. to implement that technology into a useful commercial product.”Additionally, Goede explained how the Venture Capital Group has investment funds available for local entrepreneurs to establish new companies or to grow existing small- and medium-sized enterprises in the Kingdom. Goede said, “The Venture Capital Group is always looking for innovative investment opportunities in Saudi Arabia. We have already made 14 investment commitments to Saudi entrepreneurs over the past three years. This specific case is extremely exciting for us, because the IP creator is a Saudi Aramco employee, and the company that secured a licensing agreement from Saudi Aramco is a very impressive company called TIMA® Company Ltd., founded by an extremely talented Saudi entrepreneur, Fatima Batook.” In closing, it was Batook who shared her insights from the session, saying “Today proves that Saudi Aramco is more than an oil company, as it also looks toward the future of our country in innovation and creativity, which fits perfectly with Saudi Vision 2030! It’s our honor and immense excitement to have signed with Saudi Aramco to use intellectual properties developed by a Saudi Aramco inventor, to create and develop a new venture for TIMA® Company Ltd. with wearable technology.”  Over 100 young participants, from across Saudi Arabia, have taken part in a prototyping competition organized by the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture – a Saudi Aramco initiative – in conjunction with the King Fahd University for Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM). Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (IKTVA) continues to go from strength to strength with the announcement of the completion of the largest offshore tie-in platform ever constructed in Saudi Arabia.   The completion of the fabrication of the huge Marham TP-9 Deck is part of the Saudi Aramco’s Offshore Maintain Potential Program. This covers the fabrication and installation of four oil producing platforms and associated pipelines and power cables. The project was completed in collaboration with the company’s Offshore Projects Department (OPD).    A ceremony to mark the milestone event in Saudi Aramco’s IKTVA program saw the company’s senior vice president of Technical Services, Ahmed A. Al-Saadi, praise the capabilities of in-Kingdom manufacturers.   “The completion of the massive 3,500 tons structure represents a major milestone for Saudi Aramco’s strategy to develop its offshore oil resources and to sustain the in-Kingdom manufacturing capabilities. This is the biggest offshore structure to have been fabricated to date in Saudi Arabia, and a major proof of the high level of technical competency and capability that in-Kingdom manufacturers have achieved,” Al-Saadi said.  Fostering innovation in the Kingdom is a key part of Saudi Aramco’s strategy to become the world’s leading energy and petrochemicals company, and it is a key component of the Saudi Vision 2030 to create sustained economic growth, diversification, and job creation for future generations.    For a vision on this scale, it is important to start at the foundations, to nurture the creative spirit of innovation in the youngest generation, through the science and technology programs that cater to school-aged children around the Kingdom. This is the goal of Saudi Aramco’s Training & Development’s General Educational Partnerships Division’s (GEPD) ongoing support of a Maker Movement within the Kingdom. With a second Maker Expo in April, there are already signs that the innovative spirit is taking hold.    Out of more than 400 Saudi 5-12 grade students and educators and 600 company visitors attending the second Maker Expo, three talented young Makers used novel technologies such as robotics, Google Cardboard, and 3-D printing to solve everyday problems in creative ways.   Young Samir Bakir had been a “Lego addict” from a very early age and on his 9th birthday, he took this fascination to a higher level when he received the EV3 Mindstorm kit. Mindstorm is a Lego system that allows young people to build robots and to write the computer coding that controls them.    For the Maker Expo in April, Samir decided to use the Mindstorm to create a Rubik’s Cube Solver.    “He worked on it for over four weeks in between his school homework and weekends,” his mother said. “He encountered many problems forcing him to modify the tilt arm from the original design so that the cube would not slip when being rotated.”   When the solver would not work after color scanning, Samir’s father chipped in with a suggestion to try an older version of the software. The Cube Solver worked. It was a lesson in persistence that Samir has taken to heart.    Ron Monsen, a geophysical consultant in the Upstream Continuing Excellence and Technology Planning and Development Group at Saudi Aramco, had a close-up look at Samir’s robotic Rubik’s Cube Solver and declared himself impressed.    “As an adult with a grown child I was not aware how far the old Legos my son and I played with had evolved,” Monsen said. “Samir’s project for solving the Rubik’s Cube had me mesmerized for quite a long time. Very impressive!”   Students at Dhahran’s Bayan Garden School made 60 pairs of Virtual Reality (VR) goggles, using an inexpensive system called Google Cardboard.    Designed by Google engineers in France in 2014, Google Cardboard allows Makers of all ages the ability to engage with VR environments — for gaming and other applications — using smartphones, a cheap pair of plastic lenses, magnets and a cardboard box.    Similar to the groundbreaking VR system Oculus, Virtual Reality systems like Google Cardboard are giving young innovators the tools to simulate the real world through computer graphics. Computer simulation is not just for gaming. Industrial trainers use VR to give trainees the opportunity to learn real-world problem solving skills before being deployed in the field, and as the students at Bayan Garden School learn to create their own VR goggles, they are opening the door to mastering innovation in emerging technologies that may define the 21st century workplace.    At the Maker Expo, groups of students worked together in teams to build a simple robot called a SpoutBot, consisting of switches, LEDs, toy motors, a battery pack, and resistors and requiring no soldering.&nbsp; The SpoutBot was designed by Khan Academy as an introduction to electronic components. When assembled, the SpoutBot would run along the ground until it ultimately hit an obstacle with its antenna. At this point, hitting an obstruction would cause a circuit to close, which activated a LED light, temporarily shutting off a motor and forcing the robot to change direction.   Bayan Gardens School (BGS) students took it one step farther. Fresh off their experience visiting MIT earlier in the spring, where they were taught to properly solder circuits, BGS students created a moving robot in the shape of a camel, called a CamelBot. Students learned the differences of the various components, such as capacitors, resisters, integrated circuits, and LEDs and how to solder these components together to make the CamelBot.   Shahad Al-Omani, Fawzeya Aldossary, and Juri A. Al-Huthali were glued to their stations during Maker Expo, explaining and guiding the participants on how to solder and make the CamelBot work. The students also learned some basic diagnostic techniques on what could be wrong if the LED does not light up; such as ensuring the LED is aligned in the correct direction with the short and long leg.    Shahad was one of the first students who eagerly arrived early at Maker Expo. Her father was proud to see his daughter confidently soldering components onto the board and then watching the Camelbot actually moving around and working when completed. Fawzeya, another veteran of the MIT soldering workshop, was thrilled to show others who were clearly impressed with what she had been able to accomplish. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin H. Nasser today presided over a signing ceremony of the Fadhili gas project, marking a new milestone in the company’s drive to expand gas production and supply to meet growing domestic demand for energy. The new Saudi Aramco mega project will help boost production and supply with clean-burning natural gas, lessening dependence on oil for power generation. Joining the Saudi Aramco management team at the ceremony were CEOs and executives from engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) companies, and other service providers involved in the development and execution of the Fadhili gas project. Scheduled to be completed by the end of 2019, the Fadhili gas project will become a key component of the Kingdom’s master gas system, processing gas from both onshore and offshore fields. Together, with Wasit and Midyan, Saudi Aramco’s two other new major gas projects, Fadhili will add more than 5 billion Standard Cubic Feet per Day (SCFD) of non-associated gas processing capacity. The increase in the supply of natural gas will grow above 17 billion SCFD by 2020, enabling opportunities in Saudi industries such as steel, aluminum, and downstream value-added industries. The project will be developed at a total cost that exceeds SAR 50 billion with emphasis placed on In-Kingdom expenditures, benefiting localization initiatives that will reach 40% of the total cost. The plant is expected to accommodate 4,500 jobs for Saudis between professional training and permanent and temporary jobs. A dedicated training center is expected to be established in the area in collaboration with governmental agencies focused on human resource development. The Fadhili training program, to be set up in partnership with project contractors, will provide Saudi nationals with opportunities to gain work experience and technical skills. Furthermore, partner contractors will sponsor developing young engineers at their offices across the world. Saudi Aramco President and CEO Amin Nasser said: “Saudi Aramco’s multi-billion dollar investment in Fadhili will considerably increase the share of gas in the Kingdom’s energy mix and fits in with our long term strategy to lower emissions. Gas will be of vital importance to the Kingdom’s ongoing industrial diversification and economic development while enabling better energy efficiency in the utility sector. The increased gas production will mean more feedstock for industries to expand, and new ones to emerge that will help drive job creation, a key objective of Saudi Vision 2030.” Nasser added, “On its own, Fadhili is a pacesetter among mega projects in Saudi Arabia where local sourcing and manufacturing for goods and materials will reach 40 percent, as well as being the first Saudi Aramco project to run on low Btu (British thermal unit) gas. Environmentally, it’s also unique as it’s designed for maximum sulfur recovery of 99.9%, utilizing the Tail Gas Treatment process, reflecting Saudi Aramco’s pioneering environmental stewardship.” Specifically, Fadhili will process a total of 2.5 billion SCFD of non-associated gas, including 2 billion SCFD of Hasbah offshore gas and 500 million SCFD of Khursaniyah onshore gas. It is expected to produce 1.5 billion SCFD of sales gas, 4,000 metric tons per day of Sulphur, and will supply 470 million SCFD of gas to an adjacent cogeneration power plant, which will provide Fadhili with power and steam requirements, and also supply about 1,100 megawatts of electricity to the domestic grid. Saudi Aramco is also exploring future opportunities of environmental significance at Fadhili, which may include a helium recovery plant and a CO2 recovery unit to reduce emissions. Ten contracts have already been awarded, and today Saudi Aramco signed four additional, major contracts. They are as follows:A dynamic new project, the Saudi Arabian Drilling Academy (SADA), has officially been launched. The goal set by its directors and stakeholders is to develop SADA as a training hub to serve the drilling and workover industry in the region. The project goes back to early 2015 when the Saudi Aramco Drilling and Workover (D&WO) Admin Area initiated the concept and a countrywide feasibility study was commissioned for the drilling industry. The study found that over the next 20 years, approximately 90,000 Saudis will need to be trained to meet the industry’s growth plans in the Kingdom. The best way to meet such a high demand is to act proactively by training Saudi youth to work in the drilling industry, and to do so, SADA is going to build up to training more than 4,000 Saudi nationals a year. This initiative will result in a marked increase in Saudization levels in the drilling industry across all technical job ranks.   D&WO and T&D are making a significant effort to further this project and have assigned a team of subject matter experts (SMEs) from Saudi Aramco and SADA founding stakeholders to be dedicated to this project for the foreseeable future.    Equally, drilling companies have been exceptionally proactive on this initiative and continue to offer the support needed, be it through donations of training equipment, the assignment of SMEs to work with the project development team, or the effective presence that management of these companies demonstrate to various functions and sub entities of SADA.   One of SADA’s key strengths is going to be the wide range of training programs offered to drilling companies. There are already training programs and patterns proposed to not only train young high school graduates, but to also offer continuous development programs to junior operators and technicians, which will allow them to progress with their careers all the way into senior roles.    With such a clear market need for an emerging technical workforce in drilling rigs around the country, SADA provides a very promising prospect of ensuring that such an opportunity is utilized fully to benefit Saudi youth and promote their role within the industry. On the sidelines of HRH Deputy Crown Prince Mohammad ibn Salman ibn ‘Abd al- ‘Aziz Al Saud’s recent visit to the United States to convey Saudi Vision 2030 and invite collaboration in its execution, HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, and Chairman of the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors, took part in disseminating the message, also taking time to share Saudi Aramco’s strategy to help implement Vision 2030 in Houston and Boston through a series of town halls and meetings with business, financial and academic leaders. Al-Falih kicked off his first town hall at Motiva’s downtown Houston headquarters. “Although Motiva is out of physical sight from where I serve in Saudi Arabia, it is always present in my mind as a valued organization with great people and a best-in-class asset,” said Al-Falih. Saudi Refining Inc. (SRI), a subsidiary of Aramco Services Company (ASC), and Shell are dissolving the 50-50 Motiva joint venture (JV) that has been in place in its current form since 2002, and dividing the assets. From 1998 to 2002, SRI played a key role in the future of Motiva, with a three-way partnership among Saudi Aramco, Shell and Texaco. Prior to 1998, SRI partnered with Texaco in a JV called Star Enterprise, starting in 1989, which gives Aramco a combined 27 years of service in the U.S. downstream sector. When the deal closes, SRI will have sole ownership of the 600,000 barrels per day produced at Port Arthur Refinery — the largest in the U.S. — as well as 26 distribution terminals along the U.S. Gulf Coast, and an exclusive license to use the Shell brand for gas and diesel sales in several U.S. market regions. SRI will also maintain the Motiva name. Al-Falih said the Motiva restructuring will become a platform for growth and mark a new beginning as Aramco grows its global refining footprint, almost doubling its refining capacity from over five million barrels per day (MMbpd) currently to 8-10 MMbpd over the coming decade. This growth is currently being pursued with transactions in many parts of rapidly developing Asia.   On his next stop, Al-Falih visited Saudi Aramco’s Houston research center that was inaugurated in 2014. The global R&D program, which was part of the Accelerated Transformation Program journey and comprises eight international research centers spread around the world directed from the corporate R&D centers in Dhahran, is beginning to turn out exciting results in terms of technology enhancements and breakthroughs.   In lab tours, Al-Falih saw an ultrasonic tomographic meter built in collaboration with the Production Technology team at EXPEC ARC — the upstream R&D center in Dhahran. The meter was developed entirely within Saudi Aramco and does not use radioactive sources, which is better for the environment and less costly to build and service.   Another area of interest was a downhole electromagnetic receiver wireline tool, which was a collaborative project with EXPEC ARC’s Geophysics Technology Team. The tool, currently in field trials, is expected to provide better front mapping and the detection of bypassed oil.   In the area of drilling, several novel technologies were showcased and they are expected to undergo field trials this year. These include a new advanced material to repair high-pressure gas wells suffering from defects in the well’s cement sheath, as well as a new material for improving the wellbore construction process, avoiding a significant amount of downtime. Another interesting area currently being researched is a high-value drilling fluid chemical that could be manufactured in the Kingdom, reducing imports.   Following the lab tours, Al-Falih held a town hall meeting with R&D Center employees and discussed the company’s increasing globalization and the critical importance of people and technology. He said that for the company to progress, “we must lead in upstream innovation.” He said he was pleased to see the strong connection between all of the company’s research centers and the value it creates for the Kingdom.   “The company’s R&D program is only going to grow as an important strategic area,” he said. At ASC headquarters, Al-Falih attended his third town hall of the day, noting that Saudi Aramco will take center stage in helping to implement Vision 2030. He said the company’s assignment to assist in the effort can be attributed to its history of excellence. He spoke about the importance of the Saudi-U.S. partnership, saying the Saudi delegation to the U.S. was “laying the groundwork” for the next phase of that strategic relationship, which was launched by the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques in September. Al-Falih described the transformation taking place in Saudi Arabia as being both bold and visionary, and in step with a changing world, an evolving global economy, emerging technologies, geopolitical trends, and more. Furthermore, as Saudi Arabia diversifies, so will Saudi Aramco. Al-Falih noted that Saudi Aramco began its own transformation program a few years ago, which will now be updated to be in step with Vision 2030, which has, in effect, turbocharged that effort. The company, he said, will seek to move, change, and expand into areas that will not only make it more agile and responsive, but also lead the industry into a better energy future. “We will become a much more technology and knowledge-driven organization,” said Al-Falih. He added that Saudi Aramco will develop a stronger downstream business, double refining capacity, expanding into chemicals, do more with renewables, create new technologies through its R&D efforts, and develop new business lines through investments and acquisitions.” Al-Falih also touched on the topic of the anticipated initial public offering, saying it will open up Saudi Aramco — and Saudi Arabia — to the wider world, also showcasing our achievements to the investment community. On his visit, Al-Falih also toured Aramco’s research center in Cambridge, Massachusets, where he saw that, in collaboration with colleagues in Dhahran, researchers are improving catalysis for chemical conversions, creating new membranes that outperform commercial ones to process raw gas for impurities, and looking for the onset of corrosion that could save hundreds of billions of dollars by avoiding the deterioration of facilities and pipelines. In upstream, researchers are developing new nanoscale materials that can be injected into wells to enhance understanding of reservoirs and improve oil recovery. This technology, once realized, will become part of the solution to help Saudi Aramco secure a 70% oil recovery rate, compared to an industry average of less than 35%. Another important area is nano-surfactants, which are used to enhance oil recovery. On this project, rapid progress is being made toward a successful formulation and field trials as a result of a close collaboration with EXPEC ARC in Dhahran. MIT president Rafael Reif hosted Al-Falih, and the two met with leaders in the academic and business circles of Massachusetts. Al-Falih delivered the welcoming address and then engaged in roundtable discussions on Vision 2030, as well as special focus areas of ongoing importance to the Kingdom, including education, HR development, and science and technology. Reif noted that Saudi Arabia’s large young population makes it, “a country of the future.” Saudi Aramco’s Manifa oil field, with its distinctive causeway and network of drilling platforms arching gracefully into the Arabian Gulf, is now the subject of a new coffee table book.  Produced and published by the company’s Public Relations Department, Manifa: where every grain of sand and every drop of water tells a story, captures in words and pictures the history, social, cultural, environmental and industrial context of the construction surrounding the world’s fifth-largest oil field. But the book is more than just the tale of an oil field and its environmental setting. It is an illustrated exploration of how industrial ambition, human innovation, and natural landscapes and seascapes can co-exist in harmony. Over 146 pages, readers are invited to immerse themselves in how man and nature came together during the completion of a unique feat of modern engineering. Few who have seen the Manifa oil field are likely to forget it. The Manifa Causeway arcs outward into the sapphire blue bay like a multi-legged salamander. Beneath it, under the shallow waters, lies a huge field of Heavy Arabian crude oil that is capable of producing 900,000 barrels per day. Vivid photography is complemented by a writing style that informs and invites the reader into an absorbing story that is almost heroic in its depictions of the human effort and engineering triumphs. For Saudi Arabia, the Manifa Project is a shining example of the successes and creative solutions brought to bear by its Saudi engineers.Saudi Aramco and Saudi Arabian Basic Industries Corporation (SABIC) have signed heads of agreement to conduct a feasibility study on the development of a fully integrated crude oil-to-chemicals complex to be located in Saudi Arabia. The heads of agreement contains key principles of cooperation that will form the basis for the companies to establish a joint venture, if the joint study reaches a positive conclusion. Derived from improved refining technology, the crude oil-to-chemicals process will involve innovative configurations with proven conversion technologies. This will create a fully integrated petrochemical complex which maximizes chemical yield, transforms and recycles by-products, drives efficiencies of scale and resource optimization and diversifies the petrochemical feedstock mix in the Kingdom. Saudi Aramco president and CEO, Amin H. Nasser said: “Our agreement with SABIC reflects our vision to build on Saudi Arabia’s global leadership in crude oil production and commodities export by substantially increasing the production of oil-based petrochemicals and further optimizing value across the entire hydrocarbons chain. This agreement will help spur a new era of industrial diversification, job creation and technology development in Saudi Arabia, particularly through downstream conversion of specialty chemicals by small and medium sized enterprises.” SABIC vice chairman and CEO, Yousef Abdullah Al-Benyan said: “By working together to deliver Chemistry that Matters™, SABIC and Saudi Aramco can drive advances that will diversify the Kingdom’s feedstock mix and make oil a viable petrochemical feedstock. We are hopeful that our agreement to conduct a joint feasibility study on the development of an integrated crude oil-to-chemicals complex in Saudi Arabia will ultimately lead to a new era for the Kingdom, driving strong economic growth, creating many new opportunities for aspiring young Saudis, and playing a significant role in the Kingdom’s economic transformation.” Consistent with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Vision 2030 goals, this project will provide new opportunities toward creating a world leading downstream sector in Saudi Arabia, built on four key drivers: maximizing value from the Kingdom’s crude oil production via vertical and horizontal integration across the hydrocarbon chain; enabling the creation of conversion industries that produce semi-finished and finished goods to help diversify the economy; developing advanced technologies and innovation; and, enabling the Kingdom’s sustainable development in alignment with the Kingdom’s National Transformation Program.The Kingdom’s Vision 2030 and 2020 National Transformation Program took center stage during a visit this week to the United States by HRH Deputy Crown Prince and Minister of Defense Muhammad ibn Salman ibn ‘Abd al-’Aziz Al Saud. The Crown Prince was accompanied by senior ministers, including HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, and Chairman of the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors.&nbsp; The visit underscored the strong relationship between the two nations, highlighting the growing U.S.-Saudi cooperation toward the establishment of a new era of relations between the prospect of continued mutual benefits being realized. During a media briefing, Al-Falih told Saudi journalists that key meetings that covered discussions on various issues including global energy and climate change had taken place with the U.S. Department of Energy and the Saudi delegation.   A key topic of discussion during the meetings was climate change. Al-Falih stated that the Kingdom and the U.S. have strong relations and cooperation in the field of research, and he made mention of an initiative launched after COP21 in Paris that will see the Kingdom’s research agencies develop new technologies toward energy efficiency, helping to reduce the environmental impact of carbon, while also making a positive economic impact on the Kingdom.    Al-Falih added that U.S. companies have been invited to redouble their investments in the Kingdom, noting that political stability and a solid economic environment offer advantages to potential investors. He added that the Kingdom is creating initiatives that will prompt investors to bolster efforts to expand their presence.   “We want to take our investment experiences in basic industries in areas such as oil, refining, petrochemicals, aluminum, and phosphates two more levels,” said Al-Falih. “The first is the complementary industries to these basic industries, taking advantage of advanced materials produced by the petrochemical industries, along with minerals industries of iron and aluminum manufactured in Saudi Arabia.”   He said competitively priced electricity, oil and gas, and feedstock would develop the petrochemicals industry, supported by infrastructure seen in Jubail, the Yanbu’ Royal Commission, Ras Al-Khair, Jazan, and the Saudi Industrial Property Authority.    “Putting these factors together, it will become obvious that we have the appropriate investment environment to engage in transformative industries such as automotives, manufacturing local appliances and renewable energy industries such as wind turbines.”   The second level that the Kingdom plans to develop is the services sector, with its capacity to create jobs and become a major services producer, and contribute to gross domestic product growth.    Al-Falih highlighted the Deputy Crown Prince’s commitment to developing the Kingdom’s infrastructure to help achieve Vision 2030, stating that the Kingdom’s unique location makes it a connecting point between continents, not only for the movement of materials and goods but also in terms of information that can be transferred through a network of modern technologies that will be utilized in the country.   Al-Falih also touched upon his ministry’s interest in communicating with nonprofit institutes to develop non-economic sectors in the Kingdom. He said National Geographic has been invited to partner with Saudi Arabia to conduct research on the natural geography of the Kingdom, in addition to establishing research partnerships with various Saudi institutes. He said National Geographic has expressed an eagerness to do so.   He also made mention of Motiva, a joint venture between Shell and Saudi Aramco, and how differing strategies had led both parties to agree to divide the company, with Saudi Aramco taking control of the largest refinery in the U.S. Al-Falih said Aramco was still looking for opportunities to invest in the promising U.S. market.   He said the Kingdom is doubling its gas production, telling the media delegation that Saudi Aramco plans to double its capacity of refining inside and outside the Kingdom, in addition to continuing to develop fields such as Khurais.   With the spotlight on developing young talent, the Saudi Aramco EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC) recently conducted a competition designed to give young researchers an opportunity to hone their presentation skills, develop ties between individuals and recognize exceptional talent while also stimulating creativity.    For the ‘Grand Challenge’ competition, EXPEC ARC invited young researchers who have contributed to the development of innovative concepts in their area of technical interest to present their ideas. The challenge is one of the initiatives in EXPEC ARC’s Young Researcher Program.    “Being relatively new to EXPEC ARC, this was a wonderful way to get involved with others outside my division and present my work for the first time to a multidisciplinary forum of department colleagues,” said Salma Sinan, a geophysicist. “My fellow competitors gave excellent presentations. I am honored to be among the selected group and to have the support of my colleagues and management.”   This year’s competition was held in two rounds: an initial qualifying round and the final round. There were 16 participants in the initial round; each had 10 minutes to deliver a presentation on their innovative idea. The presentations were expected to be technically sound, innovative, well prepared, and professionally designed and delivered. A judging committee consisting of EXPEC ARC’s manager and seven chief technologists evaluated the presentations.   “During the judging process, it was remarkable to witness such a rich and diverse pipeline of intellect at EXPEC ARC,” said Ali A. Al-Meshari, acting EXPEC ARC manager. “Such competitions are constructive in further challenging our young professionals, in addition to knowledge sharing across the department.” Tanajib port is a hive of activity. Forklifts come and go and spin around the dock with precision in what looks like a well-rehearsed waltz. Ships wait in line to be restocked with supplies, from drilling equipment to mud tanks for the critical drilling operations taking place deep in Gulf waters offshore. Some of the world’s largest oil and gas fields lie beyond the blue horizon. Everything here has to be well rehearsed, because having these critical supplies arrive on time to their assigned rigs keeps production in these huge fields running smoothly, 24/7. There is no room for error; Saudi Aramco depends on these offshore rigs receiving crew and supplies on time, otherwise there could be costly shutdowns. What we see is an example of logistics at its most fine-tuned and an environment where efficiency and teamwork means everything. The Marine Logistics Department’s office mobilizes all of this activity together and ensures that everything from shore to rigs operates seamlessly. What is most impressive is that a good measure of the weight of responsibility is shouldered by young Saudi talent, entrusted, empowered and mentored by their management team to carry out these critical tasks around the clock. At the age of 36, Abdulaziz S. Abuali oversees a young team of planners, shippers and loadmasters. He explains the role and the unexpected challenges often faced by the team. “My day job is a senior planner and a senior planner’s duties are to supervise the other planners and to make sure that we are always giving the customer the best service that we can and exceed their expectations. “Marine Logistics started in 2013 to extend the offshore supply for drilling offshore rigs. Basically, we received work requests through the SAP system and we processed every request with a particular category, according to whether it was an emergency or a normal request. We always look at the drilling and the drilling operations and their requirements in case they have a specific operation that requires additional support.”Without the hard work of young Saudi talent and others, the deployment of the new Marine Offshore Floating Hub in Tanajib could not have been accomplished. Abuali says that for the young Saudi team, the new business model with the deployment of the Marine Offshore Floating Hub is a unique opportunity to learn and flourish in a culture of teamwork. “It is really a great experience for the young Saudi talent. I have learned a lot here. For them, it is really a golden opportunity at their age to gain knowledge of all of these processes of offshore drilling and the processes of different logistics. This extended offshore operation really is a great opportunity for them.” While the introduction of an unparalleled and unique asset like the Hub to Saudi Aramco offshore operations is a tremendous achievement, the development and integration of the young Saudi workforce to operate such an asset is also worthy of recognition. The company’s future is in our youth and Saudi Aramco seeks to ensure that they have the right tools and training to meet the challenges — both for the benefit of Saudi Aramco and the Kingdom at large.Saudi Aramco presented its In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program to more than 300 local and international suppliers attending General Electric’s Global Supplier Forum in Riyadh last week. Launched in December 2015, the IKTVA program looks to double the value of locally manufactured materials and services purchased to 70% by 2021, which will fuel an increase in exports and high-quality jobs for Saudis.   While the forum provided a perfect venue for reaching out to local and international suppliers about Saudi Aramco’s future procurement strategies, it also allowed the company to put these strategies into action.    On June 1, the first day of the event, Yasser M. Mufti, Saudi Aramco executive director of New Business Development, signed a Memorandum of Understanding with GE and Cividale SpA of Italy to build a high-end forging and casting manufacturing facility — a first of its kind in Africa and the Middle East — that will serve the region’s maritime and energy industries.    With a joint investment of more than $400 million (SR1.5 billion), the new facility in Ras Al-Khair is designed to establish a high-value supply chain that boosts exports and economic competitiveness. Set to be operational in 2020, the plant is expected to create 2,000 quality jobs in the Kingdom and catalyze the growth of Saudi small- and medium-sized enterprises. The new facility — a world-class manufacturing plant — will operate as a joint venture of Saudi Aramco, GE, and Cividale under the Royal Commission of Jubail and Yanbu’ industrial area.    The forging and casting manufacturing facility complements plans by Saudi Aramco to develop several industrial projects in the Kingdom, including a maritime project at Ras Al-Khair that provides facilities for a cluster of businesses involved in the building, maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of offshore platforms, jack-ups, offshore service vessels, and commercial tankers.    Saudi Aramco is also working with partners to develop an onshore rig-manufacturing facility for providing new build and MRO services to onshore rigs and systems; an engine manufacturing project for the manufacturing, maintenance and repair of diesel engines, manufacturing and repair of marine pumps; and an Energy Industrial City to accelerate manufacturing industries in the oil and gas sector.    The forging and casting manufacturing facility will serve all of these projects, in addition to providing best-in-class services and technologies to downstream and other industries across the region and to global markets. It will also support the ongoing emphasis of the government, under Saudi Vision 2030, to develop the mining sector of the Kingdom by creating a domestic source market for various raw materials and supplies that go into the production line.   The collaboration with GE and Cividale is a strong example of the public-private partnerships that the government fosters under Saudi Vision 2030 to develop local manufacturing capabilities that add significant value to the economy. Creating a robust supply chain at home will not only help the company build positive synergies and cost savings in the oil and gas manufacturing sectors but also promote economic and industrial diversification in the Kingdom, spreading sustainable growth in the communities where we live.   Saudi Aramco and PKN Orlen, the Polish crude oil refining company, today held a signing ceremony of a contract agreement for Saudi Aramco to supply PKN Orlen with 50,000 barrels per day (bpd) of crude oil starting May 1, 2016 with provisions for automatic annual renewal.    The contract, formally agreed in May, marks PKN Orlen’s first long-term contract with a producer from the Middle East region and comes after Saudi Aramco supplied six spot trial cargoes to PKN Orlen’s refineries in Poland, Lithuania and Czech Republic, reaffirming Saudi Aramco’s continued role as the world’s leading and most reliable supplier of energy.    The signing ceremony at Saudi Aramco’s headquarters was presided by Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco, and Abdulrahman F. Wuhaib, Senior Vice President, Downstream, Saudi Aramco, and by Wojciech Jasiński, President and CEO of PKN Orlen.    Amin Nasser, President and CEO, of Saudi Aramco, said: "This agreement marks a strong first-step for Saudi Aramco’s entry into the Baltic market, adding value in the key markets of Poland, Lithuania, and the Czech Republic where PKN Orlen operates refineries. We continue to explore opportunities to strengthen our position as the supplier of choice in all global markets and we are confident that we are uniquely positioned to add real value to our customers’ businesses and in the growth of the economies they serve."    He added: "The agreement also firmly underlines Saudi Aramco’s ability to meet customers’ needs by leveraging our unparalleled supply infrastructure. We are always ready, willing and able to meet any additional call on demand from new and existing customers around the world."    Wojciech Jasiński, President and CEO, PKN Orlen said: "This is the first direct long term contract with a supplier from the Gulf region in the history of our company. It shows the direction of our thinking on strategic diversification of crude supply sources, which is centered on partnering with tested oil producers from different geographical regions and on securing optimum supply terms. We have repeatedly announced our intention to use market opportunities to secure an optimal supply structure and good financial terms, and we are delivering on this objective."    PKN Orlen is one of the largest crude oil refiners in Poland and operates the second largest complex for terephthalic acid production in Europe. In addition to its six refineries, PKN Orlen operates the region’s largest network of service stations located in Poland, Lithuania and the Czech Republic.    In 2015 Saudi Aramco produced an average of 10.2 million barrels per day of crude oil, a new all-time record.   Saudi Aramco has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with GE (NYSE: GE) and Cividale SpA of Italy to build the Middle East and North Africa’s first-of-its-kind high-end forging & casting manufacturing facility that will serve the region’s maritime and energy industries.    Marking a joint investment of over US$400 million (SAR1.5 billion), the new facility, to be located in Ras Al-Khair under the Royal Commission of Jubail and Yanbu industrial area, aims to establish a high-value supply chain that boosts exports and economic competitiveness. Set to be operational in 2020, the plant will create 2,000 quality jobs in the Kingdom and catalyze the growth of Saudi small and medium enterprises (SMEs).    The MoU follows a preliminary partnership between Saudi Aramco and Cividale, a leading European producer in the steel and cast iron sector, to conduct feasibility studies for forging and casting manufacturing services in the Kingdom. GE has come on board to extend its expertise and investment in developing the world-class manufacturing plant through a joint venture between the three entities.   The Forging & Casting Manufacturing Facility complements plans by Saudi Aramco to develop several industrial projects in the Kingdom including a maritime project focused on building, maintenance, repair and overhaul (MRO) of offshore platforms, jack-ups, offshore service vessels and commercial tankers.    Saudi Aramco is also working with its partners to develop an onshore rig manufacturing facility for providing new build and MRO services to onshore rigs and systems; an engine manufacturing project for the manufacturing, maintenance and repair of diesel engines, manufacturing and repair of marine pumps; and an Energy Industrial City to accelerate manufacturing industries in the oil and gas sector.    The Forging & Casting Manufacturing Facility will serve all these projects in addition to providing the best-in-class services and technologies to downstream & other industries across the region and global markets. It will also support the ongoing emphasis of the government, under Saudi Vision 2030, to develop the mining sector of the Kingdom by creating a domestic source-market for various raw materials & supplies that go into the production line.    Abdallah I. Al-Saadan Senior Vice President, Finance, Strategy & Development, Saudi Aramco, said: “The MoU reflects our ambition to create a robust supply chain that builds positive synergies in the oil and gas manufacturing sector. This builds on our deep commitment to support the goals of Saudi Vision 2030 to promote economic and industrial diversification in the Kingdom and boost localized manufacturing.”   Rami Qasem, President & CEO, GE Oil & Gas, Middle East, North Africa & Turkey said: “For the Forging & Casting Manufacturing Facility, we will leverage our already strong expertise in ‘Made in Saudi’ manufacturing. Together with our partners, we will actively engage Saudi SMEs to support the plant’s operations, and train & hire Saudi professionals, adding further value to the economy. By building a domestic forging and casting production unit, Saudi and regional customers can achieve greater operational efficiencies in product procurement, repair and service support.”    Antonio Valduga, President of Cividale, added: “The feasibility assessment study underlines the strong potential for a world-class manufacturing facility for forging and casting services in the Kingdom. Developing a full-fledged facility through the joint partnership will position Saudi Arabia as a technology and services hub for specialized equipment and services.”   The collaboration is a strong example of the public-private partnerships that the government fosters under Saudi Vision 2030 to develop local manufacturing capabilities that add significant value to the economy.   Saudi Aramco today signed a Joint Development Agreement (JDA) with its potential partners - the National Shipping Company of Saudi Arabia (Bahri), Lamprell, and Hyundai Heavy Industries for developing a Maritime Yard that will provide engineering, manufacturing and repair services for offshore rigs, commercial vessels and offshore support vessels in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.    The JDA represents the next phase of development between the partners after signing the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in January. Pursuant to the MOU, the partners have been working closely to undertake preliminary due diligence and feasibility studies on various aspects of the project and that work is currently ongoing.    With the signing of the JDA, the partners intend to jointly undergo development activities relating to financing, construction, operation and ownership of the Maritime Yard and enter into negotiations of definitive agreements in view of making a Final Investment Decision in due course.    As part of this undertaking, Saudi Aramco and the potential partners look forward to leveraging their know-how, combined with current and future business needs, to actively pursue such an investment and promote economic development in the Kingdom. In line with the Saudi Vision 2030, this project aims to localize world class manufacturing and services to support the growing national and international portfolio.    The development of a Maritime Yard signifies Saudi Aramco’s continued commitment to the development of the maritime sector and the opportunities it offers for economic growth and job creation.    The outcome of the agreement to engage in the potential joint venture partnership will be determined upon finalization of all development activities and agreements, after which all participating parties will be in a position to make further announcements.   The year 2015 was a particularly challenging one for our industry. Strategic decisions taken the past few years, including a corporate transformation founded on capital efficiency, innovation, operational excellence, and downstream integration, have placed the company in a position of strength to face these challenges. The positive results of these strategic decisions are reflected in the company’s achievements, which are detailed in the company’s 2015 Annual Review, released in May 2016.    The successes highlighted in the Annual Review reflect our unwavering dedication to become the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals company.    Collectively, we responded to the unsettled business climate on numerous fronts, optimizing capital expenditures, deferring low-priority projects, and lowering our direct controllable costs — without diminishing our determination to deliver on our strategic vision.   Saudi Aramco Annual Review 2015 – key highlights: Saudi Aramco released its latest Annual Review, titled Energy is Opportunity, highlighting the company’s key results and accomplishments in 2015 which have helped to both strengthen its integrated strategy and expansion downstream, and consolidate its position as the world’s most reliable supplier of energy. HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saudi Aramco said that, despite the low oil price environment, in 2015 Saudi Aramco delivered another record year of crude oil and gas production, as well as making significant rapid progress in its continued domestic and international downstream expansion. These results, delivered through focused operational efficiency and fiscal discipline, have consolidated the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s position in international energy markets. Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco said that 2015 was a year where the value of being a long-term company with a long-term strategy was clearer than ever before. A resilient approach allows Saudi Aramco to stay resolutely focused on its commitments to create value, deliver new technology solutions, and accelerate the development of human capital. Nasser added that in 2015 Saudi Aramco recorded its highest level of crude oil production, brought on-stream major value-addition projects in both upstream and downstream, and opened two new research centers in Beijing and Detroit. Saudi Aramco produced an average of 10.2 million barrels per day (MMBD) of crude oil in 2015, a new all-time record. Total raw gas processing averaged 11.6 billion standard cubic feet per day, also an all-time record. Saudi Aramco's share of refining capacity stood at 3.1 million barrels per day. In addition, with new refineries going online, exports of petroleum products increased by 38%, thus maximizing the value of hydrocarbons. Saudi Aramco’s exports to major markets increased substantially during the period from 2014 to the end of 2015 – for example, exports to China, Japan, South Korea and India grew by 4.5%, 2.8%, 3.5% and 18% respectively. Despite competition from shale oil, the Company’s exports to US markets maintained their level of 1 MMBD. The Review outlines that in 2015 the company’s plan to integrate its refining network with chemicals production and associated value parks reached a major milestone with the startup of the Sadara Chemical Company. In addition, the SATORP and YASREF joint venture refineries came fully on-stream and the Jazan Refinery and Terminal projects are well underway. The expansion of Petro Rabigh, the integrated refining and petrochemical venture with Sumitomo Chemical of Japan, was steadily advanced toward its startup in 2016. The 2015 Annual Review also highlights Saudi Aramco’s significant and various contributions to the overall social and economic development of Saudi Arabia, including the flagship In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) initiative that is designed to double the percentage of locally produced energy-related goods and services contracted by the company to reach 70% by 2021, thereby driving investment, economic diversification, and job creation in the Kingdom. Reflecting on the contributions of Saudi Aramco’s more than 65,000 employees, Nasser said the company’s achievements in 2015 are the direct result of the hard work and commitment of our people. “The men and women of Saudi Aramco are firmly dedicated to belief that energy is opportunity - a commitment that we are proud to honor to our customers, partners, and stakeholders every day,” he added.  A hulking gas turbine - an example of high precision engineering - stands at Siemen’s Dammam Energy Hub complete and ready for delivery to Saudi Aramco’s vast economic city mega-project in Jazan. This turbine represents much more than just another piece of Saudi Aramco’s power generation apparatus. It is the first such turbine assembled in Saudi Arabia with young Saudi talent playing a substantial role — an achievement that has been lauded by both the government and Saudi Aramco as being in alignment with the aspirations of the Kingdom’s bold economic vision for 2030 and a vivid illustration of how Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program is delivering results. Five more gas turbines will be assembled in Dammam for the Jazan project, a prospect praised by Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources HE Khalid A. Al-Falih as an example of “leadership” at an unveiling ceremony this week. Through the IKTVA program, Saudi Aramco is taking action to drive additional domestic value creation in support of a rapidly changing Kingdom and foster future prosperity. Its goal is to provide jobs for the growing Saudi population and stimulate the diversification of the economy. It was in 2011 that Saudi Aramco, together with Siemens and the Saudi Electricity Company, jointly committed to build the Siemens Dammam Energy Hub. It would be based in Dammam 2nd Industrial City, an industrial cluster operated by the Saudi Industrial Property Authority (MODON). The symbolic gravity of the recent unveiling of Saudi’s first locally assembled gas turbine was underlined by the patronage of Al-Falih. Also in attendance were Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser; Joe Kaeser, president and CEO of Siemens AG; HE Boris Ruge, ambassador of the Federal Republic of Germany to Saudi Arabia; and other dignitaries from the government and both companies. Coming just a month after the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques, King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-’Aziz Al-Sa’ud, made a declaration of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030, Al-Falih said the Siemens achievement offered proof that all of the enabling elements to make that vision a reality are available to the Kingdom. The National Transformation Program, due for release soon, would further articulate the detail of the vision. “The first and most important element is human resources, which is being nurtured by a successful cluster of ongoing partnerships whose goal is to develop and devise new and innovative ways to train young Saudis,” Al-Falih said. “The second element is infrastructure, an excellent example of which can be witnessed in the MODON. Being here in one of its cities today, we can see the fully integrated infrastructures that enable prosperous industries. “The third element of the Vision’s success is integration, where different sectors of economic activity are interconnected to complement each other. The Kingdom has linked today, and for the first time, its mining, manufacturing, and energy sectors, and the demand for its products.” Al-Falih used his address to the event to congratulate Siemens and to outline how the construction of the first gas turbine in Saudi Arabia resonates with the Kingdom’s ambitions to transform its economic landscape and provide opportunities for its youthful population. Al-Falih promised that Saudi Arabia will undergo “dramatic” industrial development over the next 15 years. “Not only in the industrial sector, not only in the sector of energy broadly — from oil and gas, to conventional power, to unconventional power — but also in new fields that will rely on the ingenuity of the Saudi people, academic and research institutions that will bring competitive forces to the Kingdom with those foreign partners to create a more diverse and vibrant, more competitive, and more rewarding economic landscape here in Saudi Arabia for everybody. “All of the stakeholders will benefit, first and foremost the young people of the Kingdom who deserve the best opportunities, but also importantly and equally for the investors who make the right choice, who are banking on the Kingdom to provide the conditions to prosper and invest and grow and who will be rewarded.” The Minister said Saudi Arabia was ready to prove itself and embark on a great economic transformation. “In Saudi Arabia, we will prove every word we have said, and once again I will say that our Vision 2030 is only the beginning of this great transformation that will take place in the next 15 years.” Nasser explained the important goals for Saudi Aramco’s IKTVA program. “The IKTVA program is designed to double the percentage of locally produced energy-related goods and services, and to create quality employment opportunities for Saudis. These challenging objectives can be achieved only if we join hands and work together. With its Energy Hub in Dammam, we see a flourishing partnership with Siemens, of which we have today reaped the first fruits together,” Nasser said. Siemens embarked on a massive program to train young Saudi talent in turbine technologies, both locally and abroad. The graduates from the program are employed at the Dammam Energy Hub and represent, in part, the next generation of experts who will shape the future of the energy industry in the Kingdom. Al-Falih and the other dignitaries toured the Siemens facility and met with young Saudis who helped assemble the first gas turbine ever made in the Kingdom. The inaugural board meeting of the National Power Academy (NPA) was held last Thursday (May 19) in Dhahran during which the Charter was officially signed by the eight Founding Stakeholders. In addition Ahmed S. Al-Essa was appointed as NPA’s first Executive Director of the Academy. NPA board members at the signing event included Mr. Abdulaziz M. Judaimi from Saudi Aramco; Mr. Abdulrahman M. Al-Obayed from Saudi Electric Company; Dr. Abdulaziz Al-Amr from Technical and Vocational Training Corporation; Dr. Omar Abdullah Al-Suwailem from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals; Mr. Abdullah Bin Ibrahim Alabdulkarim from Saline Water Conversion Corporation; Mr. Ammar M. Zwawi from General Electric; Mr. Marvin Benjamin from Siemens; and, Mr. Ziad Mortaja from Schneider Electric. The NPA is a unique public-private partnership to develop skilled human capital for the Kingdom’s ever-growing power and energy sectors providing specialized training programs in Electrical, Mechanical, Renewables, Nuclear, Operations and Manufacturing disciplines. The Academy will play a leading role to support Saudi Vision 2030 by providing the manpower required to ensure a smooth transition to the thriving and vibrant economy outlined in Saudi Vision 2030. The NPA will be the first of its kind in the region to offer innovative and up-to-date training programs for emerging sectors such as smart grid, energy efficiency and renewables. It will offer an industry-led training model, world-class laboratories, real-life training facilities, a multidisciplinary training approach, innovative teaching methodologies and an applied research and development center. The first campus of the NPA will be located in Dammam, with an expected start date before the end of 2016, and a second campus being planned for Al Hasa is scheduled to open in 2018. The NPA will bring many benefits to the Kingdom including fulfilling the expanding workforce needs for the energy sector, reducing unemployment, contributing to the Kingdom’s economic growth, catalyzing the development of a thriving knowledge based economy and promoting the transition to an energy efficient national economy. PT Pertamina (Persero) and Saudi Aramco have awarded the Engineering and Project Management Services Contract to conduct the Basic Engineering Design (BED) study for their joint Cilacap Refinery upgrade project to Amec Foster Wheeler Energy Limited. The contract was signed by Mr. Said Al-Hadrami, Vice President of International Operations, Saudi Aramco and Mr. Rachmad Hardadi, Refining Director of PT Pertamina at Pertamina’s Head Office in Jakarta, today. This follows a Heads of Agreement (HOA) which was signed by Pertamina and Saudi Aramco in November 2015 to formalize the collaboration for the project. "As the Cilacap refinery upgrade will be implemented jointly by Pertamina and Saudi Aramco, this milestone is considered as a significant achievement towards this joint venture formation. It is essential to have a strategic partner with both technical and financial capability to execute such a large project. Saudi Aramco is an ideal partner," said Rachmad Hardadi. “Signing this contract for the Cilacap Refinery upgrade project marks a key milestone for Saudi Aramco’s partnership with PT Pertamina. Saudi Aramco takes a long-term view on such investments and partnerships, where we seek projects that will bring mutual benefits to the partners and countries that will last for many decades. We look forward to this venture that enhances Indonesia’s prosperity through greater energy security and strengthens our company’s global energy value chain.” said Said Al-Hadrami. Amec Foster Wheeler will develop the scope for the proposed upgrade project for the existing refinery located in central Java and will finalize the process configuration and licensors’ packages over the next nine months. The upgrade of the Cilacap Refinery is part of Pertamina’s Refinery Development Master Plan (RDMP), aimed at improving Indonesia’s energy security and involves the expansion and upgrade of its domestic refineries. The overall upgrade project cost for the Cilacap Refinery is estimated to be approximately 4 to 5 Billion USD. Once the upgrade is completed, the capacity of the Cilacap Refinery's will increase to 370,000 barrels per day. In addition, gasoline and diesel production will be maximized and higher quality base oils will be produced from the refinery, which are targeted to be absorbed domestically. The upgrade will also enhance the petrochemicals capacity of the refinery to exceed more than 600 KTPA of aromatics and 160 KTPA of polypropylene. The companies are targeting to complete the front end engineering design (FEED) stage in 2018, and kick off the EPC phase in 2019. The project upgrade is targeted for completion by the end of 2022. Mr. Hardadi said that this collaboration is the first step towards other similar partnerships between Pertamina and Saudi Aramco with regard to refineries at for Dumai (in Sumatra) and Balongan (in Java).From changing how planes take off to the replanting of Acacia trees in milder areas of the desert, five departments from across Saudi Aramco that went the extra mile to put the environment first in their daily operations were honoured recently at a ceremony in Dhahran.   At the 11th Saudi Aramco President’s Award for Environmental Excellence, the spotlight was again on superior performers who protect the areas in which we live and work while carrying out some of the biggest industrial operations in the global energy industry. Competition for the award is intensifying as more departments companywide deepen their efforts to boost overall environmental performance. In 2015 alone, Saudi Aramco departments pursued 250 initiatives — a clear sign of how important environmental protection is to the company. Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser praised the departments’ endeavors in protecting the environment, congratulating the awardees on their achievements and thanking them for being role models of environmental stewardship. The winning departments for 2015 were: Operating organizations Service organization Most improved organizationSome initiatives included changes to operational procedures to reduce the environmental impact. Pilots in the Aviation Department use a balanced field length approach to determine the required takeoff power settings. This resulted in a reduction in fuel consumption and extended engine life without affecting safety. Other winners used advanced technology in their environmental preservation efforts. Abqaiq Plants Operations developed an Online Reboiler Advisory Monitoring tool to reduce energy consumption and save fuel gas. The tool determines the optimal amount of steam that should be supplied to NGL stripper columns. The innovation calculates efficient options based on data from the Plant Information System. Some winners reduced the environmental impact of the company while expanding their operations. While growing Master Gas System facilities to cope with local demands, EWPD triggered an initiative to replant and preserve 200 old Acacia trees from a proposed project site to another environmentally suitable location, illustrating how hydrocarbon operations can co-exist in harmony with nature. “These trees were found to be an important habitat for many wildlife species and to be playing a major role in soil stabilization,” said Mohammed A. Zulaly of EWPD. “Recent site surveys indicated that replanted trees flourished in the new location,” he added. Environmental awareness was a key criteria for the winners to ensure compliance across the department. EWPD’s employees underwent several training sessions on chemical hazard awareness to safely handle business activities and be familiar with the most effective ways to protect the environment. “This empowers frontline employees to participate in our department’s environmental protection plans,” Zulaly said.   The CEO reflected on the importance of the company’s environmental track record both on the national and global stage, noting that to maintain the company’s standing as a reliable supplier of energy, Saudi Aramco continues to make environmental protection a priority even as it expands operations in a challenging business environment.   Nasser added that although the company has doubled its gas production since 2000, it is a global leader in minimizing flared gas, which was less than 1% of total raw gas production for a fourth consecutive year.    He also pointed to other examples, including conserving water in operations and minimizing wastewater discharges from coastal facilities.   “Your achievements have definitely helped our reputation for leading in environmental protection here in the Kingdom,” he told the winners.    The company is an active participant in the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative (OGCI), an initiative driven by global oil and gas companies to catalyze practical action on climate change in focus areas such as the role of natural gas, carbon-reduction instruments and tools, and long-term energy solutions. Saudi Aramco research teams have made real progress in developing innovative climate change solutions. The Carbon Sequestration Leadership Forum (CSLF) recognized Saudi Aramco’s research in advanced materials for CO2 capture and the oxycombustion of difficult-to-burn liquid fuels. Saudi Aramco’s increased participation in OGCI and CSLF illustrates the company’s intensifying engagement on environmental challenges with the industry and stakeholders. The environmental goal is to build productive collaborations on issues ranging from energy efficiency to renewables. “Moving forward, we will further intensify our environmental focus — on climate change, in particular,” Nasser said.   Saudi Aramco and SABIC note recent speculative news reports about the possibility of merging their petrochemicals businesses. The companies wish to clarify that they have no plans to pursue this option.   Both companies will continue to explore mutually beneficial opportunities to work together as partners and contribute to the continued growth and diversification of the Kingdom’s economy. Ali Al-Yousef, Reservoir Engineering chief technologist with the EXPEC Advanced Research Center (EXPEC ARC), was in the spotlight at the recent Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE) Improved Oil Recovery (IOR) international conference where he was recognized with the IOR Pioneer Award. The IOR conference at Tulsa is the world’s premier SPE meeting in the area of improved and enhanced oil recovery (EOR). Considered a top honor among the worldwide IOR and EOR community, the award recognizes Al-Yousef’s significant achievements and successful applied research projects related to IOR, waterflooding, and EOR. He pioneered, patented, and deployed Saudi Aramco’s in-house SmartWater flooding technology; played a pivotal role in planning, developing, and implementing the EOR road map for the company; and now leads more than 50 EOR scientists, engineers, and technicians — all dedicated to the development of various EOR processes and reservoir engineering innovations. “It is indeed a great honor to receive this award,” said Al-Yousef. “Such an achievement exemplifies the immense dedication of the team as well as support and encouragement from Saudi Aramco and EXPEC ARC over the past several years in successfully developing the SmartWater flooding idea from concept all the way to field implementation.” Such recognition at this highly reputed SPE international conference demonstrates EXPEC ARC’s leading edge in IOR/EOR research and development. Bold undertakings, such as these by Al-Yousef, are not only supported but highly encouraged at EXPEC ARC. Author of more than 60 papers, Al-Yousef holds eight patents and has received the Saudi Aramco CEO Excellence Award for his research. In 2011, he also received the ADIPEC Best Oil and Gas Innovation and Technology Award in the Middle East/North Africa region for the SmartWater flooding approach. The SmartWater technology invented by Al-Yousef is an elegant and cost-effective recovery technology based on plain water. The technology maximizes cost efficiency by tuning ionic properties of seawater and uses the company’s existing huge water injection infrastructure to increase recovery. The process has been successfully field-tested and is expected to transform production at Saudi Aramco in the coming decades. The high-value deployed technologies by EXPEC ARC, such as IOR/EOR, are having a positive impact on our upstream customers’ field operations. The technical processes and innovative solutions are providing considerable return on research investment through both cost-savings and ever-increasing hydrocarbon recovery. The SPE IOR Pioneer award program commenced in 1984. Ali is the first IOR pioneer from outside North America to receive this prestigious award over the 30-year history of the symposium. The IOR Pioneer Award recognizes individuals who have made significant contributions to the development of IOR/EOR technologies over many years through research and field applications. Nominees must have received industry recognition for involvement in one or more phases of IOR activity and dedicated two to four decades of their career to the development and application of leading-edge technology designed to increase recovery from older oil fields.  The petrochemical sector and Saudi Aramco’s continued growth of its downstream business have the potential to play a pivotal role in the Kingdom’s 2030 Vision for a diversified and sustainable economic future, according to Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Chemicals.   Warren W. Wilder was addressing an audience of 200 at the technical dinner of the Saudi Arabia Section of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (SAS-AIChe).   Deputy Crown Prince HRH Mohammed ibn Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-’Aziz recently unveiled the progressive economic road map for the Kingdom’s economic development, with diversification of the economic landscape away from over-reliance on oil. The diversification of the Saudi economy away from oil is viewed as a key national objective for sustainable economic development.   Wilder said that Saudi Aramco’s entry into chemicals and its ambitious strategic plan to become a fully integrated global petroleum and chemicals enterprise will leverage its capabilities and resources to create jobs and help diversify the Saudi economy beyond oil.   Wilder characterized Saudi Aramco’s approach to growth in the chemicals sector as being based on a two-pronged integration strategy — integration with refineries and other feedstock providers and integration, or closer ties, with customers.   Wilder pointed to the significant employment potential of a growing chemicals sector in the Kingdom.    “The sector directly employs 89,000 employees and provides indirect employment for at least three times as many, or about 267,000,” he said.   “Employment in this sector has been growing at a very healthy 9% per year over the past 10 years. And 79% of the employees are Saudis. In fact, the petrochemicals sector is the nongovernment sector of the economy with the highest percentage of Saudi employees.   “It is therefore not surprising that the petrochemicals sector was highlighted as an important vehicle for implementing the National Transformation Vision. The sector will play an increasingly important role in the future,” Wilder said.   Wilder went on to highlight that the Saudi petrochemicals industry has been designated as one of seven national industries selected for concentrated support. However, to maintain competitiveness and achieve its full potential, the industry must address “certain key challenges.”   Wilder identified diversification of feedstocks, the diversification of the product slate, and the promotion of downstream industries as the three main challenges.   “Most of the Kingdom’s petrochemicals presently being exported are commodities. These products, such as polyethylene, polypropylene, and MEG account for 98% of Saudi petrochemical production, compared to only 60% to 70% for Germany and the U.S.   “While Saudi Arabia certainly needs its commodities production strength, we also need to radically alter the downstream equation to derive greater benefits in-Kingdom, through knowledge-based and innovation-driven small- and medium-sized enterprises,” Wilder said.    Wilder concluded by stating his conviction that “Saudi Aramco Chemicals will be a powerful force for the future, helping to diversify the industry, attracting foreign and local investment into the Kingdom and facilitating the development of a knowledge economy.” A scarcity of energy resources, growing energy market volatility, growing concern over the security of future energy supply, and — last but not least — growing concerns over climate change and its negative impacts make the need for energy saving and energy efficiency significant. This May sees Saudi Aramco’s annual energy conservation campaign, designed to raise awareness of energy efficiency within our communities. This campaign has been conducted since 2006, and this year, is working in alignment with facets of Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. The theme of this year’s campaign is The First Step to Conserving — Understanding. Our Community Services (CS) division, who conduct the campaign, believes that ‘understanding energy utilization’ is the most essential element in energy conservation. Unless we understand ‘what to save, where to save, when to save, and how to save,’ the comprehensive energy-saving strategy cannot be realized. CS will be promoting the energy pyramid concept to explain the relationship between complexity and investment to implement energy conservation. The Energy-Efficiency Pyramid, modeled on the commonly known food pyramid, is a guide for energy retrofit work, starting at the bottom rung. Homeowners who are uncertain of the best way to lower their energy bills should start at the lowest level of the pyramid and work their way up. Actions near the bottom of the pyramid are much more cost-effective than actions near the top of the pyramid. At current energy prices, the actions listed on the top two layers are never cost-effective. The rules displayed in the energy conservation pyramid are not set in stone; every house is different, and different climates dictate different strategies. Home energy audit: Before beginning any energy retrofit work, a homeowner needs information, which can be achieved through a home energy audit. Why conduct an energy audit? By identifying the most important retrofit tasks for your specific house, a good audit can save a significant amount of money that might have been wasted on inappropriate work. Low-cost measures to reduce plug loads: Turn off your appliances. This step can yield significant savings for a very small investment. To lower your electric bill: Lighting: The next step is very cost-effective: make sure your house is incandescent-free. Light-emitting diode (LED) and compact fluorescent (CFL) lights are best energy-saving options. Air sealing: Air-sealing work will usually yield a quick payback in energy savings and is best done by an experienced home-performance contractor equipped with a blower door. Efficient appliances: If some of your major appliances — your refrigerator, clothes washer, or dishwasher — are more than 10 years old, you may want to replace them with more efficient models. Don’t be tempted to buy a bigger refrigerator; small is good. Pay close attention to the yellow Energy-Guide labels — especially the number of stars and annual kWh number — when you go appliance shopping. Insulation improvements: Many older homes have less insulation than homes built today, but even adding insulation to a newer home can pay for itself within a few years. You need to find out the following: Space-heating and cooling equipment: When inefficient heating or cooling equipment gets old enough to replace, be sure to invest in the most efficient available equipment. If you are shopping for a new air conditioner, look for high SEER (14 or higher). There’s an important reason why energy-efficiency experts recommend holding back on the purchase of new heating and cooling equipment until air sealing and insulation work is complete: envelope improvements may permit heating and cooling equipment to be downsized. If you replace your heating and cooling equipment before finishing necessary air-sealing work or insulation upgrades, you’ll waste money on oversized equipment. Replacement windows: We’ve now reached the top of the pyramid. Further measures will probably reduce your home’s energy consumption, but they are unlikely to be cost-effective. The reason these measures are at the top of the pyramid is that few homeowners want to spend more on retrofit work than they will ever see in savings. Glazing with a low U-factor is desirable in all climates. In climates with cold winters, south-facing windows should have a high solar heat-gain coefficient (SHGC); in climates where air-conditioning bills are high, windows should have a low SHGC. Renewable energy equipment: PV is a good investment in areas with high electricity costs. If tax credits and subsidies are considered, the investment can pay it back in a reasonable time period in many areas. In a sign that Saudi Arabia’s growing culture of innovation is taking hold, the Halliburton R&D Center recently held an entrepreneurship workshop at its facilities in the Dhahran Techno Valley.    Five startup companies, created by young entrepreneurs from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM), presented their technological solutions and marketing plans before a panel of representatives from Halliburton, Saudi Aramco, and KFUPM.  Led and facilitated by Michael Bittar, senior director of innovation in the Halliburton Global Technology Center, and Hicham El Hajj, principal scientist at the Halliburton Technology Center, the workshop is aligned with the Kingdom’s newly launched Saudi Vision 2030 to build up the Kingdom’s economy through its small and medium sized enterprises and is also in line with Saudi Aramco’s ongoing efforts to foster a vibrant ecosystem of knowledge-based startup companies that can manufacture for, and support, the Saudi energy sector. The growth of tech entrepreneurship is one of the strongest economic drivers for the Kingdom’s transition to a knowledge-based economy. All five of the entrepreneur teams were selected and received close support and coaching from the Entrepreneurship Institute at KFUPM. Saudi Aramco’s partnership with technology leaders such as Halliburton at the Dhahran Techno Valley is just one of many ways the company is delivering on its strategic objective of supporting sustainable growth in the Kingdom through entrepreneurship and technological innovation. Helping to create an ecosystem of small- and medium-sized enterprises in the Kingdom not only helps the company by providing a network of local manufacturers and service companies, it also fosters potential partners in collaborative research and development and helps drive rapid economic growth and to create jobs for Saudi citizens.Partnering with small and medium startups can help larger corporations to adapt to the volatile changes that can occur when disruptive technologies change the business landscape. A February 2016 study by INSEAD Business School, titled “#500 Corporations: How do the World’s Biggest Companies Deal with the Startup Revolution?” found that 68% of the top 100 companies from the Forbes Global 500 are engaging with startups, and that the top 100 companies are working with startups two times more intensely than the last 100 companies of the Forbes Global 500. Among the young startups displaying their innovative ideas at the workshop were the following:  After each presentation, entrepreneurs received crucial feedback from experts from Halliburton and Saudi Aramco‘s Reservoir Management and the Technology Coordination Group at the EXPEC Advanced Research Center.Khaled A. Al Buraik, Saudi Aramco vice president of Petroleum Engineering and Development and chairman of the DTV Strategic Committee, commended the Halliburton Technology Center at DTV for being proactive and taking the initiative to organize and execute the workshop. “We consider technology-based entrepreneurship an integral and indispensable component of DTV’s innovation ecosystem and essential for its current and future success and sustainability,” Al Buraik said. “The workshop also coincided with the successful launch of the Kingdom’s ambitious Vision 2030, which looks to — among its many visionary pillars — increase small- and medium-size enterprises’ contribution to 35% of our national GDP by 2030 and to increase the private sector’s contribution from 40% to 65%. Therefore, we are all aligned on the importance of collectively galvanizing our efforts to work together towards meeting these high level expectations. “The objective is to facilitate the commercialization of new technologies by leveraging technology based startups owned and successfully operated by our young Saudi youth to tap into viable market opportunities locally and globally. This workshop is a simple step, yet a strong building block for future multifaceted continuing work in this important and strategic domain.” The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud delivered a number of Royal Orders on Saturday, May 7, 2016, to support and facilitate the implementation of the ambitious Saudi Vision 2030, an initiative introduced to rapidly transform the Kingdom and diversify its economy. Emanating from the keenness of The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud to continue the march of growth and development which has been adopted by our country since its unification by the founder ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz ibn Abdulrahman Al Sa’ud and his sons, the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques has continued this march within the framework of an integrated strategy and in accordance with studied plans that were developed after conducting several specialized studies. The first outcome was the restructuring of the bodies affiliated to the Council of Ministers, the cancellation of several councils, commissions and committees, and the establishment of two councils — one for political and security affairs and the other for economic affairs and development. The two councils have undertaken their duties to serve the interests of the country and citizens. Based on the above, and in line with the Kingdom’s Vision (2030), the restructuring of some ministries, authorities and general organizations was conducted in accordance with the requirements of this phase and the desired aspirations to have the state bodies performing their duties in the best way to provide the citizens and expatriates with high level services, and to achieve a prosperous future and a sustainable development. This has necessitated the abolition, integration and arrangement of the jurisdiction of many ministries, authorities, public commissions and government departments in order to make the responsibilities clear and facilitate the procedures to provide the best services in line with the state policy. In order to achieve these objectives, a number of royal orders were issued today restructuring some ministries and government bodies and appointing a number of ministers and officials. Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-’Aziz Al Sa’ud issued a Royal Order appointing HE Khalid bin Abdulaziz Al-Falih to the post of Minister of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources. Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-’Aziz Al Sa’ud issued a Royal Order appointing HE Ali bin Ibrahim Al-Naimi to the post of Advisor at the Royal Court. “I am sure all of you are aware HE Khalid A. Al-Falih was appointed by Royal Order as the Kingdom’s Minister for Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources, while HE Ali I. Al-Naimi has been appointed as an Advisor to the Royal Court. I know I speak for everyone at Saudi Aramco when I wish both their Excellencies every success in assuming their new roles and fulfilling their new responsibilities. Both of them are highly respected around the world, not only for their contribution to Saudi Aramco but also to the global energy industry and on the national stage. On behalf of everyone at the company, I want to thank HE Ali Al-Naimi for his dedication, and his wise leadership and guidance to the company and the petroleum industry over the past few decades. The newly established Ministry of Energy, Industry and Mineral Resources will usher in a new chapter in the Kingdom’s industrial development, resulting in better integration and efficiencies consistent with Saudi Arabia’s Vision 2030. These appointments reiterate the central role that Saudi Aramco and its people will continue to play in the Kingdom’s development, its contributions to the country’s continued transformation, and the duties we have to the Saudi people. I know that everyone will do their utmost to make sure we deliver on our commitments and fulfill the company’s promise and potential.” Harvard Business School (HBS) — known for its top tier MBA program — recently brought Saudi Aramco into the classroom, where students engaged in an educational exercise to review and analyze the company’s venture capital initiative.   The HBS curriculum incorporates case study reviews on real-world business management decisions as a way for students to hone their critical-thinking skills.    “Saudi Aramco and Corporate Venture Capital” was the title of the case study spotlighted in the Venture Capital and Private Equity Class held in April with about 90 students in attendance.    HBS faculty invited key Saudi Aramco representatives to visit the class that analyzed the case study. Motassim A. Al-Ma’ashouq, vice president of New Business Development (NBD), and members of his team participated via video conference from Dhahran. On site were Saif S. Al-Qahtani, director of Saudi Aramco Energy Ventures (SAEV), and Majid A. Mufti, head of Upstream Transaction, NBD.    The case study was prepared by HBS professors Joseph B. Fuller and Matthew Rhodes-Kropf, and research associate Nathaniel Burbank. HBS cases are developed solely as the basis for class discussion and are funded by the school.    The case examined the situational analysis that led to Saudi Aramco’s decision to create a corporate venture capital (CVC) fund to invest globally in early-stage and high-growth technology companies. The company’s goal was to find and invest in new technologies of strategic importance to the enterprise and the Kingdom.    To do that, SAEV was launched in 2012 as a wholly owned subsidiary to scout and recommend opportunities for the company to allocate investment dollars. It became a reality through the efforts of the Saudi Aramco NBD team, in collaboration with the chief technology officer’s office.   Headquartered in Dhahran with a global network of offices, SAEV’s investment strategy centers on three sectors: upstream oil and gas; downstream and petrochemicals; and renewables, efficiency, and water.    “We were delighted that Harvard Business School selected Saudi Aramco for one of its case studies,” Al-Ma’ashouq said. “This is a world premier business school, and its students are accomplished and keen to learn and engage. It was beneficial for us to hear their perspectives.”    “I’d like to thank the faculty and others for hosting our visit, and for allowing us to be a part of the educational process,” he added.    Al-Qahtani said the experience at HBS was rewarding, adding that he thoroughly enjoyed meeting the students. “I was impressed with the caliber of their analysis,” he said.    Mufti, who had a critical role in developing the CVC fund and the formation of SAEV, said he believed the team was able to “open a window” for the students to see the opportunities and challenges involved in structuring a venture capital program for a large corporation.    During their campus visit, Al-Qahtani and Mufti also served as guest speakers at chapter sessions of the HBS Energy and Environment Student Club and HBS Middle East and North Africa Student Club to further talk about Saudi Aramco and SAEV. Additionally, meetings were held with Saudi Aramco-sponsored students enrolled in the MBA program.   Professors Fuller and Rhodes-Kropf expressed their appreciation to the Saudi Aramco team members for their participation in the various educational venues.   Students both in the classroom and club meetings asked a variety of questions focused on the goals and challenges in forming a corporate venture capital group. Following are several of those questions, with combined responses given by Saif S. Al-Qahtani, director of SAEV, and Majid A. Mufti, head of Upstream Transaction, NBD.   Answer: “The strategic value is of primary interest. If use of a particular technology, for example, ends up directly saving our company even 1% in its upstream operations — that amounts to a huge positive impact on our bottom line.”  Answer: “They definitely complement and support one another to advance the company’s leadership position in the technology sector. The capital ventures effort works as a multiplier, enabling us to expand into the external marketplace to see, learn, and adopt additional technologies that we may not have known about otherwise.”  Answer: “We see ourselves today as a truly diversified energy and chemicals company. Even though petroleum is still in demand as a primary energy source — and will probably remain so for quite a while — there may be a time beyond that where our customers need something else. We will continue to invest in the energy for the future. Solar is of particular interest to Saudi Aramco, since Saudi Arabia certainly has plenty of sun and a suitable terrain.”  Answer: We developed our energy ventures group, SAEV, as a separate entity to help enhance the flow of business. Our Investment Committee, which makes the final investment decisions, is composed of those within the company who have a personal stake in adopting technologies that will help solve operational challenges in their respective areas. This creates a mindset geared toward success.” The world is in the midst of the forth industrial revolution, and it is important that the young employees of today make a positive change to their environs rather than simply trying to adapt to them. This was one of the primary messages delivered during the recent Saudi Aramco 2016 HR Young Talent Forum, which saw the gathering of more than 200 young Saudi Aramco talents at the Plaza Conference Centre in Dhahran. Organized by the N-gage team - a group who work towards creating a work environment in which young employees are able to utilize their capabilities positively - the forum focused on young employees and the tools they will need for success. The forum was attended by HR leaders from both inside and outside the company, and was designed to be an interactive event to provide rich exchanges of information and fruitful discussion. During the event, Al-Ghoson, executive director of Human Resources at Saudi Aramco, delivered a speech during which she touched upon the importance of the positive change that employees can make themselves rather than just coping with change, as the world witnesses the fourth industrial revolution. According to estimates, Al-Ghoson said, the successful adoption of new technologies associated with this revolution will foster both productivity and excellence.    Al-Ghoson highlighted three skills that employees must have to achieve success and self-actualization: “Young talents constitute 50% of manpower. They are Saudi Aramco’s promising generation who will contribute to the company’s future achievements. The company is keen to familiarize them with our departments and operations, which are no less important than learning about business aspects and details in the rest of the world,” Al-Ghoson said.    The event featured a presentation and a workshop jointly presented by Matthew Mee, managing director of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development Middle East (CIPD Middle East), and Amy Baxendale, Employer Solutions manager at CIPD.    The N-gage team, which coordinated the forum, delivered a short presentation on the team’s work and role in creating a positive environment for employees, which laid the groundwork to encourage many employees to join the team.    “The idea started in 2013 with the appointment of four young talents linked to the administration area to represent the employees,” said Fatema Al Habboubi, a young talent and one of the team members.    The N-gage board includes seven part-time members from several HR departments. The term of the board is 18 months. Members are selected by nomination followed by a personal interview with the HR management team. The goal of the N-gage team is to enable young talents to provide creative solutions and to showcase important HR issues that impact the future of the next generation of employees.  More than 4,000 geoscientists and professionals from 47 countries recently participated in the 12th Middle East Geosciences Conference and Exhibition (GEO 2016), under the theme “Today’s Geoscience, Tomorrow’s Energy.” GEO 2016 was conducted under the patronage of HRH Prince Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of Bahrain. The event opened with HE Abdul Hussain bin Ali Mirza, Minister of Energy in the Kingdom of Bahrain, providing remarks, followed by speeches from Musabbeh Al Kaabi, CEO of Mubadala Petroleum, and Daniel Yergin, vice chairman of IHS. Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Upstream Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani attended the exhibition inauguration. Ibraheem M. Assa’adan, vice president of Exploration for Saudi Aramco, led a panel session titled “Long-Term Strategies through Unpredictable Markets.” The panel featured several leaders in the oil and gas industry, who spoke on several topics, such as: In a panel session titled “Unconventional Resources of Middle East,” Assa’adan spoke about Saudi Aramco’s strategy to exploit and develop unconventional gas to meet Saudi Arabia’s growing energy demand. The strategy is based on three pillars: “Local content of material and equipment is a major enabler of this strategy, and plans are underway to source proppant from local sands and rig equipment from local manufacturers,” said Assa’adan, who also added that “for us to be successful, we need to invest in people more than anything.” Assa’adan emphasized that Saudi Aramco will adopt relevant best practices from the unconventional oil and gas industry in North America while developing in-house solutions necessary for efficiently operating in the Kingdom. A priority for unconventional operations is protecting the Kingdom’s valuable water resources, Assa’adan said. Similar to operators in North America, Saudi Aramco is considering recycling water used in drilling and hydraulic fracturing. Furthermore, the company will source a majority of the operation requirements from treated seawater, protecting precious aquifers. In opening remarks for a panel about emerging trends in information technology (IT), Yousef A. Al-Ulyan, then-acting executive director of IT and session co-chairman, spoke about how advancements in technology such as cloud computing and mobile devices present an opportunity for professionals in the oil and gas industry to work more efficiently. However, these developments also produce challenges in the areas of security and data management. Other topics discussed during the session included the importance of conducting detailed surveys and extensive data collection before planning a management system, the difficulties in ensuring IT security on smartphones that are used for company use, and the importance of encouraging employees to avoid downloading applications with security vulnerability by warning users about the greater risk of hacking. In the panel discussion “Women’s Growing Role in the Energy Industry,” female leaders from oil and gas companies from the Gulf Region discussed the increasing number of women in that vital sector. For university students and young professionals, GEO 2016 included a panel session composed of industry leaders who spoke on the importance of soft skills and technical capabilities. More than 65 students from 18 universities attended the event. As part of the event, teams from eight universities based in GCC countries and Jordan vied for three qualifying slots to represent the region in the Imperial Barrel Award Program (IBA). Annually, the American Association of Petroleum Geologists (AAPG) organizes the IBA competition. The competition challenges students from around the world in a scenario in which they must assess the potential of a basin by analyzing real world data. They then present their results for maximizing the extraction of hydrocarbons. Separately, 35 students from the College Preparatory Center — who were sponsored by Exploration — participated in GEO 2016 for one day to learn about the industry and interact with professionals. Exploration young professionals led the students through the conference and exhibition. During GEO 2016, 65 speakers and 35 poster presenters from Saudi Aramco highlighted the company’s expertise in exploration. Among them was Abdulaziz Muhaidib from the Exploration Operations Department who spoke on filtering near-surface scattered waves for conventional oil extraction. Hadi Balhareth of the Exploration Technical Services Department spoke on sensitivity analysis and the application of time-lapse full waveform inversion based on a case study from the North Sea. Rainer Zuhlke of EXPEC ARC described 3-D forward stratigraphic modeling in reservoir quality prediction.  Nabeel A. Al Mansour has been appointed by the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors as general counsel and corporate secretary, effective May 1, 2016. Al Mansour was assigned as the deputy general counsel in October 2015. Prior to that he had served as executive director of Materials Supply from February 2014 before being appointed vice president of that organization in May 2015. During his time in Materials Supply he was responsible for overseeing the corporate supply chain, contracting activities, and Saudi Aramco’s global materials logistics operations. Al Mansour had served as associate general counsel from April 2011 to February 2014 following a distinguished series of roles with the company’s Law organization. He began his career with the company in 1988 as a participant in the College Degree Program for Non-Employees, earning a Bachelor’s Degree in Systems Engineering from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in 1990.  Following participation in Information Technology’s Professional Development Program and assignments with Engineering Services, Al Mansour was selected in 1996 for the company’s Out of Kingdom Law Degree Program through which he earned a Juris Doctor degree with honors in Law from Oklahoma City University in the United States. Upon his return in 1999, he served as counsel with the Law organization. Al Mansour served as legal adviser to the Kingdom’s Natural Gas Investment Initiative, and in 2003, he took part in the competitive offering of natural gas exploration projects. In 2007, he led the legal team negotiating the renewal of the oil concession agreement between the Saudi government and Chevron. He also led the company team that supported the development of Sadara. He subsequently led the legal organization’s transformation program enabling Law to play an effective role in achieving the company’s ambitious aspirational goals. In 2009, he served as acting manager of Projects and Strategic Purchasing. Later, in April 2011, he was appointed by the Board of Directors as associate general counsel. Al Mansour has participated in several management development activities including the President’s Leadership Challenge and programs at Oxford University and Harvard. The Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco), Princess Nourah University (PNU) and Wipro Arabia Limited, a subsidiary of Wipro Limited, a leading information technology, consulting and business process services company, today inaugurated the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia’s first all-women business & technology park. The project is expected to create nearly 20,000 jobs for Saudi women over a period of ten years. The Women’s Business Park (WBP) is a result of a joint venture between Princess Nourah University (PNU), the largest women’s university in the world, and Wipro Arabia Ltd. Saudi Aramco is an advisor to and anchor tenant of the WBP. Dedicated to working women, this business park is a first of its kind project aimed at providing knowledge-based employment for women in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. The joint venture agreement was signed at a ceremony held at PNU, attended by H.E the Minister of Education, Dr. Ahmad Al-Issa, PNU Rector, H.E Dr. Huda Al-Ameel, Saudi Aramco President & Chief Executive Officer Mr. Amin H. Nasser, and Mr. Azim Premji, Chairman of Wipro Limited. The WBP is envisioned to be the largest engineering drafting services, information technology and business process services hub in the region for a number of industry sectors including oil & gas, manufacturing, government, healthcare, telecom and construction. The idea of the business park was conceived in September 2014 when Saudi Aramco signed a memorandum of understanding with PNU. Wipro joined the partnership because of its experience in managing talent and providing IT services to a multi-industry customer base. The joint venture will be responsible for developing the park’s facilities and infrastructure as well as training and employing up to 20,000 Saudi women. Dr. Huda Al-Ameel, Rector of Princess Nourah University said, “The goal of the WBP is to create 21,000 jobs by 2025 and give women a critical role to play in a way that serves the objectives of the nation and to build a knowledge economy with societal and international partnerships. We also aim to provide a start-up eco-system to upcoming entrepreneurial ventures. In a country where women represent about 60% of all university graduates, but less than 15% of the country’s workforce, the WBP is poised to be a milestone initiative.”  Mr. Amin H. Nasser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco said, “Saudi Aramco is proud to be part of the creation of world class facilities that enable employment opportunities for qualified Saudi females. This one-of-a-kind facility in the Kingdom is the result of close collaboration between partners from private and public sectors and is aligned with the Kingdom’s strategy for sustainable economic development and long term localization initiatives.”  Speaking about this partnership, Mr. Azim Premji, Chairman of Wipro Limited said, “Wipro has always extended support to the cause of women empowerment and it is our endeavor to foster an environment that encourages and enables more women to participate in business and tap their leadership potential. It has been more than a decade since Wipro began its operations in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and localization has always been an important aspect of our business strategy here. We are happy to be a partner in this initiative which strongly aligns with our values.” The park will be developed on the iconic PNU campus, and will include entrepreneur incubators, daycare centers and a one-stop coordination center for government transactions.  Saudi Aramco unequivocally supports Saudi Vision 2030 announced Monday by The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, HRH Crown Prince Mohammed ibn Naif ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, and HRH Deputy Crown Prince Mohammed ibn Salman ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud, President of the Supreme Council of Saudi Aramco. Commenting on Saudi Aramco’s role, HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Saudi Aramco chairman of the Board of Directors, said: “Saudi Vision 2030 is a pioneering and game-changing plan that will enable sustained economic growth, diversification and job creation to benefit the Kingdom and its citizens for generations to come. Saudi Aramco will continue its commitment and remain fully engaged as a champion of transformation, ensuring that our significant contributions to the overall social and economic development of Saudi Arabia generate even greater positive impact in the future.” On addressing the urgent need to shift the Kingdom from an oil-based economy, Al-Falih commented: “There needs to be a fundamental shift in our economic landscape if we are to reduce our unsustainable over-reliance on oil. Therefore, accelerating reforms across key economic sectors, privatization of key industries and the creation of a globally competitive small- and medium-sized Enterprise sector are essential to delivering Saudi Vision 2030.” Al-Falih also said that the Kingdom was opening itself for further investment. “The message is clear: Saudi Arabia is opening itself for further investment by those already in the Kingdom, as well as openly inviting potential future investors,” he said. “Investment and export opportunities exist for global companies who want to take advantage of Saudi Arabia’s ready access to infrastructure and abundant supply of energy. Saudi Arabia provides unrivaled competitive advantages and investment opportunities as a manufacturing and trading base to reach global markets. The government will continue to ease regulations to make the Kingdom one of the most attractive locations in the world to do business.” Al-Falih was clear that the Saudi Vision 2030 would require a national effort. “The Vision is there, the path has been set and the prize is great. Everyone — business and community leaders, partners, suppliers, and most of all Saudi men and women, especially our talented youth — can make a contribution, and everyone must play their part.”  On maintaining Kingdom’s pre-eminent position as the world’s most reliable supplier of energy: “We remain committed to maintaining the Kingdom’s position as the world’s top oil exporter and most reliable supplier of energy, while continuing to make strategic investments across the hydrocarbons value chain that will elevate the Kingdom as the global hub for energy.” On some of the actions needed to reach Saudi Vision 2030: “The Kingdom’s transformation vision demands innovation, technology and R&D to spur a new era of industrial growth. Saudi Aramco’s continued leadership and investments in upstream and new investments in downstream expansion will help drive the widespread and rapid in-Kingdom development of a vibrant population of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises focused on producing high-value finished and semi-finished products in the petrochemicals conversion sector.”  Saudi Vision 2030 is a boost for Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (iktva) localization program: “Saudi Vision 2030 will provide tremendous opportunities to strengthen Saudi Arabia’s local supply chain capabilities across every industry sector. Saudi Aramco’s flagship iktva program is essential to attracting inward investments in local engineering; innovation and technology, and manufacturing; and to creating thousands of highly-skilled and specialized jobs for Saudis, while embedding an entrepreneurship culture and more agile business climate.”  “Some of Saudi Aramco’s most significant achievements in recent years have been in developing new international and domestic partnerships in the downstream space. Major global businesses are choosing to invest locally in our refining and chemicals sector thanks to our committed approach. Alongside the expansion of the Public Investment Fund, I believe that Saudi Vision 2030 and the National Transformation Plan can deliver further opportunities to help us consolidate those downstream relationships still further. Delivering Saudi Vision 2030 will also attract new partners in energy-related sectors. Increased inward investment, especially when the investor has a local operation and stake, will help strengthen the economy.” “Saudi Arabia is certainly a nation blessed with hydrocarbons, and while the Kingdom’s economy must reduce its over-dependence on oil, our unrivalled oil and gas assets will help continue to drive the Kingdom’s economic growth, long into the horizon on a sustainable basis. We have the world’s highest quality of reserves and product grade quality, we are the world’s lowest cost producer, and our recovery rates are among the highest in the world.” “In addition, our upstream research and development is focused on increasing recovery from existing assets and optimizing reservoir management, and increasing oil and gas exploration and discovery, striving to replace 100% of produced oil with new reserves and growing reserves annually. All of these factors are embedded in our strategy to contribute even greater value to the Kingdom’s economy.” “As well as supporting our customers through commodities export, strengthening our role as the world’s most reliable energy supplier, Saudi Aramco will continue to support the Kingdom’s domestic energy needs: supporting the shift to gas to drive utilities expansion and improved national energy efficiency; oil to support transport fuel efficiency; and, petrochemicals feedstocks supply to support rapid economic diversification through the growth of SME manufacturing sectors that are reliant on downstream conversion into high-quality consumer products.” “Saudi Vision 2030 will consolidate and augment Saudi Aramco’s role at the heart of our nation. Critically important is the role that highly skilled local talent will play in creating a more vibrant and diverse economy. Saudi Aramco will continue to invest in strengthening its world-class engineering capabilities and training and development programs. This focused effort will help to ensure that future generations of young Saudis are well prepared to manage the Kingdom’s energy resources.” “Saudi Vision 2030 recognizes that the Saudi people are the Kingdom’s most precious resource. Lowering the national rate of unemployment from 11% to 7% by 2030 is a challenging but achievable goal. Enhancing national education levels, embedding skills for the knowledge economy, and increasing women’s participation in the workforce are all critical to helping achieving it. Saudi Aramco will continue to support initiatives that enrich our workforce with world-class science, technology and engineering skills and training, but also through partnerships that fit with our company and Kingdom strategy.” “For example, through Saudi Aramco’s partnership with Tata and GE, the Riyadh Business Process Outsourcing Center is delivering vital business services, efficiently and affordably to customers around the world. And it’s doing so by employing a skilled and talented female-only workforce in a way that’s both customer-centric in terms of excellence of delivery and employee-centric in terms of flexibility. I am confident that by 2030 the Saudi Vision blueprint will have enhanced and diversified our entire national labor force for the better across many sectors. This is both what we need and what the nation deserves.” “Saudi Vision 2013 is very well thought of, ambitious and inspirational.&nbsp; It sets the stage for major transformational change in all aspects of the Saudi economy, society and culture.&nbsp; The main engine of change would, of course, be the Saudi people, who are the most precious resource.” “Saudi Vision 2030 calls for an accelerated and broad diversification of the economy, driven by entrepreneurship, technological innovation and targeted investment. Saudi Aramco’s In Kingdom Total Value Add localization program is one example of how this vision is being put into practice today by promoting the development of localized energy sector businesses so that the company and the Kingdom benefit from a cost competitive local supply chain and the creation of new high quality jobs for Saudis. This is a model that I believe can be expanded upon and extended nationally across many industrial sectors to create thousands of new, well paid and highly skilled jobs that will appeal to our youthful workforce.” “Delivering Saudi Vision 2030 will transform our national economy and reduce the over-dependence on oil. The listing of Saudi Aramco and other privatizations will increase investor confidence in the local stock market and boost foreign direct investment, market stability and overall growth. This will be good for the country and for Saudi Aramco and its customers, partners and suppliers.”  “Saudi Vision 2030 outlines dramatic actions to be taken which will cut bureaucracy and implement wide-ranging transparency and accountability reforms nationally. These steps will make it easier to do business within Saudi Arabia and will, in turn, increase commercial activity, foreign direct investment, and job creation. In addition, the prospect of an initial public offering of Saudi Aramco will elevate the international visibility of our strategic decision-making and accountability practices. This will promote a greater understanding of Saudi Aramco’s business capabilities and increase confidence in our long-term strategic orientation and governance, and thus be a positive development for the Company.” Saudi Aramco has taken another stride forward toward its strategic goal of becoming a world-class integrated energy and chemicals company with the launch of ARLANXEO, our 50-50 joint venture with German chemicals specialists LANXESS. Based Maastricht, Netherlands-based ARLANXEO will significantly expand Saudi Aramco’s investment in our Downstream business and will specialize in world-class highly efficient synthetic rubber and elastomer products. The name ARLANXEO is derived from the names of both partners in the joint venture, combining one syllable each of Saudi Aramco and LANXESS. The ending “EO” refers to the products and stands for elastomers. Its shareholder committee is chaired by Matthias Zachert, chairman of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG and chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO, while Warren W. Wilder, vice president of Chemicals, Saudi Aramco, will be vice chairman. Michael Pontzen, chief financial officer at LANXESS, and Khalid H. Al Dabbagh, financial controller at Saudi Aramco, are the other two members of ARLANXEO’s Shareholders’ Committee. Speaking at the launch ceremony, Fahad M. AbdulKareem, president and CEO of Aramco Overseas Company, described ARLANXEO as an “exciting new entity. “Not only do we bring to the table access to reliable feedstock supplies but also operational excellence, mega-project experience, and strong financial capabilities. From this perspective, we are partnering to drive growth. We will provide the resources to build additional scale and help fund the innovation pipeline necessary to remain a leader,” AbdulKareem said. A big part of the new joint venture’s business will be the production of high-performance tires for the automotive industry. LANXESS already supplies many of the world’s largest tire and automotive parts manufacturing customers. The official launch of the new company helps enhance Saudi Aramco’s competitive position in the global market and further integrates our diverse portfolio across the hydrocarbon value chain. Abdulrahman F. Al Wuhaib, Saudi Aramco senior vice president of Downstream, said ARLANXEO will offer several benefits to the company and to the Kingdom as it strives to diversify its economy. “Through the joint venture, we are investing in a world-class synthetic rubber and elastomer products capability that already supplies many of the world’s tire and automotive parts manufacturing customers,” said Al Wuhaib. “In addition to creating a new revenue stream for Saudi Aramco, the joint venture will spur economic growth and diversification opportunities for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East region in high-volume sectors, such as tire and auto parts manufacturing, that are dependent on higher margin, value-added chemicals products.” Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Chemicals, Warren W. Wilder, described the launch of ARLANXEO as another step forward toward Saudi Aramco becoming the world’s leading integrated energy and chemicals company. “It further diversifies our portfolio, strengthens our capability across the entire petroleum and chemicals value chain and enables us to unlock the full economic potential of the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources. It could also potentially be a catalyst for promoting the Kingdom’s economic diversification, helping to create high-skill, high-value manufacturing job opportunities.” The new company starts up with about 3,800 employees and plans to quickly become a global brand name in the rubber industry.  Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program has allowed for further impetus with GE Oil and Gas breaking ground on a new Multi-Modal Manufacturing Center at MODON in Dammam. Abdulaziz A. Al Abdulkarim, Saudi Aramco’s vice president of Procurement and Supply Chain Management, and other members of executive management recently joined with GE Oil and Gas management for an official groundbreaking ceremony. The new phase development builds upon the expansion of GE’s Gas Pressure Control manufacturing facility that was inaugurated late last year and comes with a promise of creating 100 jobs during the startup stage, with an 80% rate of Saudization. When constructed, the new 18,000 m2 center will have the capability to manufacture and service the entire range of GE’s oil and gas portfolio, including Artificial Lift, Digital Solutions, Downstream Technology Solutions, Turbomachinery Solutions and Subsea Systems. GE Oil and Gas promises that the new center will bring added “Made in Saudi” capabilities, serving as a manufacturing, assembly, repair, services, and training facility for advanced gas turbines and mechanical drives. Al Abdulkarim said the IKTVA program, launched by Saudi Aramco last December, is already making a positive impact. “We are confident that the IKTVA initiative is steadily gaining momentum. As partners such as GE Oil and Gas are demonstrating, IKTVA is a ‘win-win’ proposition for companies able to build a deep and lasting relationship with the Kingdom by extending the opportunity to localize our materials and services procurement needs, all while supporting the economic growth, job creation and skills development of Saudi Arabia.” GE Oil and Gas president and CEO Lorenzo Simonelli said: “With over 80 years of partnership in the Kingdom, we are committed to strengthening our localized manufacturing service and repair capabilities, and to building our already strong local talent pool. The new center brings cross-functional synergies to our operations in the Kingdom and will serve as a one-stop center for our customers in Saudi and the region.” The new facility will also deliver the services of the recently acquired Alstom Grid business, enabling it to offer a complete portfolio to customers. Recently, GE Oil and Gas completed the first six high-efficiency gas compression trains manufactured in Saudi Arabia. These will be used in Phase I of Saudi Aramco’s Master Gas System expansion project in the Kingdom. The Saudi Arabian International Chemical Sciences Chapter of the American Chemical Society (SAICSC-ACS) is seeking abstracts for the 10th International Conference and Exhibition on Chemistry in the Industry, ChemIndix 2016. ChemIndix will be held November 20–24 in Manama, Bahrain. Ahmad O. Al Khowaiter, Saudi Aramco chief technology officer, will be the executive conference chairman of the event. Conference topics include: Breakthrough Materials in the Energy Industry, Petrochemicals, and Refining Processes; Fuel Engine Technologies; Advanced Trends in Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Storage Technologies; Energy Efficiency and Renewables; Oil Field Chemistry; Enhanced Oil Recovery; Environmental Issues and Solutions; and Analytical Technologies and Advanced Characterization. All questions may be directed to the conference organizing committee at abstracts@chemindix.com. For more information or to submit abstracts, visit www.chemindix.com. The deadline for abstract submissions is April 30.  Government’s intention is to build hundreds of of similar health-care facilities for behavior and developmental disorders, the Shamah center expected to be followed up by several initiatives throughout the Kingdom. The Governor of the Eastern Province HRH Prince Saud ibn Nayif ibn ‘Abd Al-‘Aziz Al Sa’ud inaugurated the Shamah Autism Center in Dammam on April 7. The Prince toured the facility and interacted with children while he listened to teachers and specialists explaining the center’s services. The center is built on an area of 2,400 square meters with a capacity for 100 students and the capability for expansion. The center is designed to provide early intervention for boys and girls ages 3-8. Currently, half of the staff are Saudis. The center provides services that meet international standards and follow best practices. The center is an initiative by the Shumua Al Amal Company to provide specialized services to autistic children and their families within the Eastern Province. As part of its social responsibility endeavors, Saudi Aramco provided financial and technical support to build the facility and will also help to operate the center for the next five years. Based on global averages, approximately 125,000 to 200,000 children in the Kingdom are believed to be affected by autism. The national project launched to address autism and pervasive developmental disorder is built on five pillars: “This program has made strides in all of its fields under the management of mental health professionals within the Health Ministry. We intend to build hundreds of health-care facilities for this segment of society.”, says HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Health and Saudi Aramco Chairman of the Board. Saudi Aramco president and CEO Amin Nasser noted that international studies show a potential increase in the number of cases diagnosed with autism. An important factor in successful intervention is that children receive specialized treatment in their early, formative years. “I hope that the Shamah Autism Center, along with other current and future centers, will provide a conducive environment to realize the potential of autistic children, empowering them to enrich the Kingdom and world with their creativity,” said Nasser, adding that the inauguration of the center should spark hope for many children who will be the men and women of tomorrow. With the launch of the center, it is hoped that not only will the facility address a percentage of this need directly, but that the example set forth by Saudi Aramco and our partners will spread throughout the region and the Kingdom to build similar centers and meet societal needs as a whole. HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Health and Chairman of the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors, met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday in Riyadh.    During the meeting, they discussed ways to enhance cooperation between the two countries and reviewed Saudi oil supplies to India. The meeting was also attended by HE Adel M. Faqih, Minister of Economy and Planning. The al-Hasa region in the Eastern Province of Saudi Arabia can become a major center for knowledge-based and innovation-driven sectors, and the small-to medium-size enterprises, as part of the Kingdom’s economic transformation strategy, Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO said today. In remarks made at the opening session of al-Hasa Investment Forum 2016, Nasser reaffirmed Saudi Aramco’s commitment to play a pivotal role in the Kingdom’s sustainable economic development and diversification, including focused development in high potential regions, such as al-Hasa. Nasser said the company is working on multiple fronts with its partners to achieve its objectives. He said the growth potential for al-Hasa is aligned with Saudi Aramco’s business objectives of further enhancing the existing oil and gas value chain, while at the same time expanding and diversifying its portfolio into high-yielding sustainable economic sectors. Nasser said “al-Hasa is among the richest areas for oil and gas in the world, and we are proud that it is the home of Al Ghawar, the jewel of the Kingdom's oil fields and the largest conventional oil field in the world. The company’s plan for al-Hasa is by no means limited to this giant field, as we have ambitious plans to further develop oil and gas in the area.” He described the recent discovery of unconventional gas in the basin of Jafurah, near al-Hasa, as promising with the potential to generate new business and investment opportunities, and highly-specialized jobs for Saudi nationals. The Saudi Aramco CEO explained that al-Hasa region holds a vast potential, especially in agriculture, tourism and manufacturing, among others. “al-Hasa region has ample opportunities to make a significant leap in its economy, based on its ever expanding energy sector, advanced agriculture, world-class tourism, small factories and trade, and above all, taking advantage of the conducive business environment, as the area has been for centuries the center of trade routes in the region. The promising potential of al-Hasa is limitless,” he said. He further added, “al-Hasa is one of the ideal sites — for small- and medium-sized enterprises specialized in various sectors, especially the hydrocarbon supply system, petrochemical conversion industries — which enjoys substantial competitive advantages.” In his remarks before an audience of dignitaries and senior officials and representatives from the government, the business community and local institutions, Nasser outlined Saudi Aramco’s plans and commitment to support the growth of al-Hasa, which would benefit its people and its communities. He said that one of the most important strategies adopted by the company in its effort to promote economic diversification is domestic value addition, by maximizing the local content of goods and services. This strategy will be driven by the In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (IKTVA), initiated in 2015 by Saudi Aramco, to increase the percentage of local content of goods and services to 70% over the next 5 years. Referring to the development of the Energy Industrial City, which was announced by H.E. the Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources during the al-Hasa Investment Forum 2013, Nasser said the project, currently under development, can position the region as a major center of growth for small- and medium-size enterprises, and for entrepreneurs. Nasser also pointed out that a key Saudi Aramco contribution to al-Hasa’s human capital development was the establishment of the National Industrial Training Institute (NITI), the result of a strategic partnership between Saudi Aramco and the Technical & Vocational Training Corporation (TVTC). NITI provides industrial training to young Saudis to help meet market and industry needs, contribute to community growth, provide employment opportunities, and support the Kingdom’s Saudization efforts. The al-Hasa Investment Forum is an initiative of the al-Hasa Chamber of Commerce and Industry, in cooperation with Saudi Aramco as a strategic partner. The forum is the premier business and economic event for al-Hasa and the Eastern Province, and has served as an effective mechanism for stimulating growth and investment activity in al-Hasa.   Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program received a boost recently as Schlumberger, a leading global supplier of technology and information solutions to international oil industry clients, officially inaugurated its new regional Center for Reliability and Efficiency (CRE) in the Kingdom.   Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco’s president and CEO, Mohammed Y. Al Qahtani, senior vice president of Upstream, and Sherif Foda, Schlumberger’s president, Production Group, inaugurated the new cutting-edge facility — the largest of its kind in the world. The center will support oil field asset reliability and efficiency and is a landmark development for Saudi Aramco’s and the Kingdom’s push toward boosting local content in the energy industry and related sectors.    The IKTVA program, which was launched in December, is designed to increase investment and economic diversification, enabling job creation and workforce development within Saudi Arabia.   Schlumberger’s 178,000 m2 state-of-the-art center is the largest and most modern CRE. It will employ more than 450 specialized and technically qualified Saudi employees when it reaches full capacity. The CRE, based in Dammam Second Industrial City, is dedicated to the advanced maintenance and servicing of oil and gas technologies.   The new facility will undertake the advanced maintenance of oil field technologies and equipment, including drilling apparatus and hydraulic fracturing pumps fresh from the testing rigors of the field, ensuring their efficiency and reliability. The CRE also features huge high pressure wash bays and can deal with the repair of a wide array of Upstream equipment, from mud shakers to coiled tubing units.   IKTVA’s vision centers on mandatory “local content development” of suppliers and contractors that prioritizes the purchase of goods and services from a local supplier base and looks to double the percentage of locally manufactured energy related goods and services to 70% by 2021.    At the opening ceremony, Nasser said, “Schlumberger’s decision to invest in this regional world-scale facility in Saudi Arabia underlines the Kingdom’s key position as the epicenter of the global energy industry and also as an attractive destination for investors.”   In addition to supporting Saudi Aramco’s IKTVA program to increase local content across our supply chain, this center creates jobs and enables development opportunities for talented Saudis in the energy and other related sectors.    “Being the largest of its kind in the world, it is part of a new business model for enhanced service delivery, and I am proud to see highly qualified, specialized Saudi engineers and technicians doing work that is critical to maintaining Saudi Arabia’s position as the world’s leading supplier of energy,” Nasser said.   In his inauguration address, Al Qahtani cited three reasons for the importance of the inauguration and underlined a commitment to reliability in the company’s business.   “Our relationship with Schlumberger goes back decades,” he said. “Schlumberger is a strategic service provider for our Upstream business, and their collaboration with our Upstream Advanced Research Center aligns with our strategy of becoming a creator of world-class technologies.   “This center will help Schlumberger become even more innovative, reliable, and efficient, which is an essential component of our own response to the current low oil price environment,” he added.  The Safaniyah shoreline was the venue for a recent Saudi Aramco coastal cleanup campaign, held under the theme “Together We Make Our Beach Better.”   The Safaniyah Offshore Producing Department (SOfPD), along with the Operation Projects Department (OPD), organized the cleanup, to remove coastal litter from the shoreline. Around 100 employees from Saudi Aramco participated in the event.   The cleanup involved clearing two kilometers of the coastal area on the Safaniyah seashore, with a goal of providing a clean and healthy local environment. SOfPD manager Khalid M. Al Khalb highlighted the importance of encouraging operations personnel and contractors to take joint responsibility in making sure that they live in clean and healthy communities, and to ensure that any waste dumped on the shore is removed immediately.    Waste is not only harmful to people in the community but it also contaminates the coastal environment and affects marine life such as crabs, fish nurseries and turtle habitats.   Al Khalb also discussed the merits of following good environmental practices at the shore and urged all employees to avoid leaving trash and waste that will affect and harm the natural ecosystem.   The campaign was a success, as was the awareness program designed to educate operations and contractors on coastal litter issues and to encourage positive changes to reduce litter and protect the quality of the Kingdom’s aquatic environments. Around three tons of garbage was collected from the shoreline.    The contractors were happy to participate in the campaign and showed great interest in participating in similar events that will benefit the surrounding communities.   Trash is one of the pollution problems facing the Kingdom’s coastal areas. “To help protect the ocean and coastal areas from pollution, coastal cleanup campaigns such as today’s, should be planned more often to heal the bay,” said SofPD supervisor Rashed Muatairi, who was among the participants of the campaign.   Zouhair Kaaki, an SofPD compliance supervisor who organizes such events every year, said the enthusiasm of the participants greatly helped with the success of the cleanup. “We had a big jump in participation, which we were really pleased to see,” said Kaaki. “Every year, we bring people from other organizations to the Safaniyah area to participate in these great events, and we want as many people as possible to be a part of our commitment to keep the environment clean.” The 42nd City-Pier-City (CPC) run at The Hague recently took place with more than 41,000 runners taking to the city streets for one of the largest sporting events in the Netherlands. The Aramco sponsored event saw runners of all fitness levels, from amateurs to professionals, participating in a variety of races, including the 10K, 5K, children’s runs, and the half-marathon. The runners were cheered on by 140,000 spectators, who took to the streets to show their support. Professional runner Edwin Kipyego of Kenya won the half-marathon with a time of 1:00:27 to become the new world season leader. He was closely followed by Stephen Kibet, who finished second in 1:00:33, and 2014 and 2015 CPC run winner Abraham Cheroben, who came third with a time of 1:00:35. For the fifth year, Aramco was a major sponsor of the event, sponsoring 1,500 university students from around the Netherlands for the Aramco Student Run and the Aramco Student Home tent. Promoting an ethos of ‘healthy body and healthy mind', Aramco’s continued involvement in the event provides the opportunity to energize young talent. Prizes sponsored by Aramco were presented to the three fastest students in male and female categories for the three distances. The fastest male runner in the 10K was Roeland van der Harst, who crossed the finish line in 34:50. A sports management student at The Hague University, van der Harst ran the fastest 10K time since the CPC Student run began in 2012. He has been running short distance marathons since he was six, but admitted, “I was struggling the last 2K but was able to pull myself through to the end.”&nbsp; As part of our commitment to citizenship, 80 AOC employees, family, and friends took part, competing both as individuals and teams in the various races. Volunteers also provided support to runners in the Aramco Student Home tent, ensuring that all participates safely completed the race. Students came from universities throughout the Netherlands, including Leiden University, a CSR partner of Aramco, and TU Delft, which is home to an Aramco research center.   Saudi Aramco reaffirmed its commitment to help drive sustainable economic growth and diversification across the Kingdom through the promotion of its In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program during the 4th Saudi U.S. Business Opportunities Forum taking place March 22-23 in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.   Speaking at a plenary session on the first day of the Forum, Saudi Aramco’s Vice President of Procurement and Supply Chain Management, Abdulaziz Abdulkarim said: "Two critical objectives guide our new IKTVA localization program: First, we will double the percentage of locally-produced energy-related goods and services to 70 percent by 2021, And second, our local energy goods and services industry will export 30 percent of its output over the same period."   He continued, "IKTVA is a win-win proposition for companies able to build a deep and lasting relationship with the Kingdom by setting-up shop here and investing in training and workforce development, to help capture their share of Saudi Aramco’s future spend on materials and services."   IKTVA, launched in December 2015, is the Company’s commitment to local content development that is now required across its domestic and international supply chains and is helping drive investment, economic growth and diversification, job creation and work force development within the Kingdom.   The Saudi U.S. Business Opportunities Forum is a high-level gathering of senior officials and business leaders from Saudi Arabia and the United States. This three-day forum will explore opportunities for greater economic collaboration between the two nations as well as provide an unparalleled business networking environment.  It is time to turn opportunities into realities that will benefit future generations as Saudi Arabia and China develop and grow into knowledge-oriented, innovation-driven economies, said Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President and CEO, at the China Development Forum 2016 in Beijing.  Highlighting numerous opportunities for mutual growth, Nasser told ministers, officials and global executives that Saudi Arabia provides China’s Belt and Road initiative with an ideal platform for prosperous trade between the Middle East, Asia, and Africa. Speaking at the panel session ‘Establishing New Industry and New Growth Drivers’, Nasser said the opportunity to forge closer ties in energy and other sectors received a fresh impetus in January, when the Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman ibn Abdulaziz and His Excellency President of China Xi Jinping inaugurated the YASREF joint venture refinery of Saudi Aramco and Sinopec. Also in January, Saudi Aramco and Chinese government entities signed Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) to enable closer collaboration. Nasser said the Belt and Road initiative holds significant win-win promise, provided there is close collaboration. “At Saudi Aramco, we believe the Belt and Road holds great potential to bridge East and West Asia,” Nasser said in his remarks. Saudi Aramco is partnering with Development Research Center, China’s leading think-tank, through an MOU to study further cooperation in the Belt and Road’s economic, trade and energy arenas. “Among other commonalities, both China and the Kingdom are travelling toward knowledge-based innovation driven economies. Our close alignment on new business models and prudent reforms makes us ideal partners on this journey and in fact I see similar paths that can speed us toward our destination,” he said. Economic cities such as in Jazan and the Energy Industrial City currently being developed in Saudi Arabia offer Chinese companies prime manufacturing opportunities and incentives, to expand their footprint beyond Asia to Africa and Europe. Another area of shared interest that Nasser highlighted is technology and innovation, which are increasingly important to both Saudi Arabia’s and China’s development. This includes cleaner, more sustainable energy use where Saudi Aramco’s extensive experience can add value for China, he said. “While technology continues to revolutionize energy, it will be decades before renewable energies contribute appreciably. Clearly, ultra-clean oil must be our priority,” he said. With that goal in mind, Saudi Aramco is collaborating with the automotive industry on futuristic, integrated engine-fuel systems that minimize emissions and deliver improved mileage. Aligned with this effort is Saudi Aramco’s Beijing Research Center, which will leverage Chinese innovation for both upstream and downstream technologies. Saudi Aramco remains steadfastly committed to being the leading supplier of energy to China, and the Company would like to deepen its involvement in the country’s downstream sector through significant investments in integrated supply, refining, chemicals, lubes, distribution and marketing, Nasser said. Such investments would serve to enhance China’s energy security and result in greater efficiencies and innovation, as well as meet far more stringent environmental protection standards. While Saudi Aramco’s relationship with China spans energy, academic and cultural exchange, and business cooperation, Nasser said future prospects are bright and that it’s time to turn opportunities into realities that will benefit future generations. In his closing remarks, Nasser said: “I am confident that the new level of partnership will yield greater prosperity not only for our two nations, but for the people of the world for generations to come.”During his visit to Beijing, Nasser also witnessed the signing of a technology MOU for Saudi Aramco to collaborate with the premier Chinese Academy of Engineering in promoting engineering and technological sciences between the two countries for mutual benefit. This is the first time the academy forged a collaboration with an overseas company. Through the MOU, the two bodies will set up a framework for collaboration between specialists in engineering and technological sciences disciplines as well as contacts between appropriate industries via study visits, exploratory missions, joint seminars/workshops, exchange information and other activities of common interests.He also met with with Xu Shaoshi, chairman of National Development and Reform Commission, Li Jianhua, Party secretary of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, Gao Shuqiang, governor of Shandong province, Zhou Ji, president of Chinese Academy of Engineering, Bi Mingjian, CEO of China International Capital Cooperation, and with the leadership teams from Sinopec and CNPC. These meetings come with the implementation phase of the recently signed MOUs between Saudi Aramco and their counterparts in China’s investment and energy sectors.Remarks by Amin H. Nasser, President & CEO, Saudi Aramco, at the China Development Forum 2016 A partnership gaining momentum Zao shang hao, ladies and gentlemen. For the past quarter-century, the world has watched China’s economic ascendance with admiration. Today, as China shifts to higher-quality growth, Saudi Arabia is taking a similar path. Among other commonalities, both China and the Kingdom are traveling toward knowledge-based, innovation-driven economies. Our close alignment on new business models and prudent reforms makes us ideal partners on this journey. In fact, three concurrent paths can speed us toward our destination. The first path transcribes China’s strategic Belt & Road initiative. Saudi Arabia’s emerging and expanding economic cities offer prime opportunities and incentives to Chinese business. In fact, the west coast city of Jazan, where Saudi Aramco is building a world-class infrastructure with a refining, fuels and feedstocks hub at its heart, is ideal for manufacturers from China expanding to Africa and Europe. We are working with Ningxia and Guangdong provinces to help facilitate investments. At Saudi Aramco, we believe the Belt and Road holds great potential to bridge east and west Asia. Accordingly, we have been working with China’s leading think-tank, the Development Research Center, to define opportunities for cooperation. The second path, technology and innovation, is vital for economic development and more sustainable energy use. And it’s where we can add substantial value. While technology continues to revolutionize energy, it will be decades before renewable energies contribute appreciably. Clearly, ultra-clean oil must be our priority. Yesterday, Vice Premier Zhang Gaoli emphasized that innovation must be at the core of future development. With that goal in mind, we have been working with car manufacturers on futuristic engine-fuel systems that minimize emissions while delivering exceptional mileage. On similar lines, Chinese scientists in our Research Center here in Beijing are innovating both upstream and downstream technologies. In fact, today Saudi Aramco will sign a technology agreement with the premiere Chinese Academy of Engineering. The Kingdom’s long-standing energy relations with China extend far beyond oil supply – which brings me to the third path. Our cooperation ranges from investments in refineries to procurement, project management, and locating our regional hub in Beijing. But we want to make these ties much stronger. We furnish 20 percent of China’s crude oil imports – about one million barrels a day. But there’s a significant gap in what we are doing now, and what we can offer. Our investments in China’s entire oil value chain – integrating supply, refining, chemicals, lubes, distribution and marketing – don’t match our supply. Bridging this disparity will yield better efficiencies, innovation and environmental protection.&nbsp; Ladies and gentlemen, during the G20 Summit last November, President Xi said: “Instead of talking the talk, we must walk the walk.” And during his landmark meeting with King Salman two months ago in Saudi Arabia, both leaders pledged action. Our longstanding friendship spans energy, academic and cultural exchange, and trade. And like other nations, both seek to grow amid challenging new realities. And I am confident that the new level of partnership that was reached in January will yield greater prosperity not only for our two nations, but for the people of the world – for generations to come. Saudi Aramco is committed to go the extra mile and will stay the course on this exciting journey of transformation. I look forward to our next steps together. Xie-xie.  Saudi Aramco and specialty chemicals company LANXESS are pleased to announce the members of the Executive Board of ARLANXEO, their previously announced 50:50 synthetic rubber joint venture.

Both companies will have equal representation on the Board consisting of four members. LANXESS will be represented by Jan Paul de Vries, who will assume the position of Chief Executive Officer (CEO), and Jorge Nogueira, who will become member of the Executive Board. Saudi Aramco will be represented by Ali Ba-Baidhan and Fayez Alsharef who will become Chief Financial Officer and Chief Procurement Officer, respectively. In addition, Johan Gerrese from Saudi Aramco will become ARLANXEO's General Counsel and Secretary.

Abdulrahman Al-Wuhaib, Senior Vice President Downstream, Saudi Aramco said: “We are pleased to confirm these senior appointments of proven and respected leaders. I am confident they will serve ARLANXEO and its global customers well.” “ARLANXEO will be provided with a strong, international executive team who will bring the respective skills of both partner companies in an ideal manner. Thus, we have created the best possible conditions to position ARLANXEO as a reliable partner for its customers, as an attractive employer and as a strong brand in the global synthetic rubber market,” said Matthias Zachert, Chairman of the Board of Management of LANXESS AG and future Chairman of the Shareholders’ Committee of ARLANXEO.

The headquarters of ARLANXEO will be in Maastricht, Netherlands.

On September 22, 2015, Saudi Aramco and LANXESS signed an agreement to create a 50:50 joint venture for the development, production, marketing, sale and distribution of synthetic rubber used in the global tire industry, auto-parts manufacturing and a wide range of other applications.

As the antitrust approval process was completed earlier than expected, ARLANXEO will already launch on April 1, 2016.  How do you discover new talent within your organization? The conventional way is to go through the usual hierarchical process where certain individuals are selected by different levels of management to make presentations at various business events.   However, in this fast-moving age, it is more effective to look at more unorthodox approaches, which is why programs such as “The Voice,” “X Factor,” “Arabs Got Talent,” and “American Idol” have become so popular.    This is this unconventional angle that our Operations and Business Services (O&BS) organization recently took when it launched the Best Presenter Competition to engage employees, encourage a healthy competitive spirit, and discover talented presenters. The competition invited all employees to take part, allowing everyone to participate on an equal footing.    This first competition proved successful and was enthusiastically received. About 200 employees participated in the competition, which consisted of three rounds with contestants assessed under two categories: age 35 and under, and over 35.   The overall winner was Rayah S. Al-Gheithy, who captured first place as best presenter in the 35 and under category, with Alanood A. Al-Rabiah as runner-up. Éric Saint-Gelais was awarded the title of best presenter in the over 35 category.    Departments proactively encouraged employees to enter the competition, with many supervisors offering their support.    For the first round, participants were requested to submit a presentation with slides on a business-related topic of their choice, accompanied by a three-minute video of themselves giving the presentation. Presenters were assessed on a set criteria of five elements: topic, structure, graphics, delivery, and timing. Following a panel review, 21 individuals were selected to advance to the second round.   For the next stage of the competition, participants gave a 10-minute presentation to an O&BS manager-level panel, again on a business-related topic of their choice. The top six presenters were then selected to go through to the third and final round. “The competition was both an enjoyable experience and a change from regular work routine. I think light-hearted events like this one create a positive company culture,” said Al-Gheithy. Saint-Gelais said: “This Best Presenter Competition was a great experience, and I am extremely happy to be one of the winners. I accept this title with much humility, because you may be a good presenter some days, but a bit less another day. However, if I can give any advice, it is to try to make your audience smile and laugh. If you can achieve this, then anyone can be a good presenter.” Meanwhile, Al-Rabia added, “Participating in the O&BS Best Presenter Competition was quite an exciting experience; it contained heavy doses of appreciation and enthusiasm, and without exception, healthy competitiveness followed.”  The final round was the toughest. The six finalists were given a topic with which they were unfamiliar, along with relevant but fragmented data, and allowed four hours to prepare a short presentation. They had to understand the topic, organize and format the data, structure the topic, develop the slides and notes for the delivery, all within those four hours. They subsequently had to present to the O&BS business line leadership team. Each presentation was followed by a Q&A session, during which the panel tested the presenters’ ability to understand and elaborate on the topics, in addition to evaluating the presentation’s structure and delivery. Ibrahim Khawaji from the O&BS Service Line said: “We are introducing competitions that allow everyone in the organization to participate so that hidden gems can be unearthed and shine by their own initiative and drive without imposing the usual formal hierarchy. The energy and enthusiasm of all the participants in this competition made our quest for talent a very worthwhile exercise, and we’ve been extremely impressed by the quality of presentations and the caliber of presenters.” Following on from this success, several other similar competitions will be rolled out during the coming year. Saudi Arabian Oil Company (“Saudi Aramco”) through its wholly owned  Saudi Refining Inc. (“SRI”) subsidiary and Royal Dutch Shell plc  (“Shell”), through its US downstream affiliate,  announce today they have signed a non-binding Letter of Intent to  divide the assets of Motiva Enterprises LLC. The Motiva joint venture  was formed in 1998 and has operated as a 50/50 refining and marketing  joint venture between the parties since 2002.  In the proposed division of assets, SRI will retain the Motiva name,  assume sole ownership of the Port Arthur, Texas refinery, retain 26  distribution terminals, and have an exclusive license to use the Shell  brand for gasoline and diesel sales in parts of Texas,  the majority of the Mississippi Valley, the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic  markets. Shell will assume sole ownership of the Norco, Louisiana  refinery (where Shell operates a chemicals plant), the Convent,  Louisiana refinery, nine distribution terminals, and Shell  branded markets in Florida, Louisiana and the Northeastern region.  “Motiva's performance has been transformed in  the last two years. We propose to combine the assets we will retain  from the joint venture with Shell’s other Downstream assets in North  America. This is consistent with both the Group  and Downstream strategy to provide simpler and more highly integrated  businesses which deliver increased cash and returns” said John Abbott, Shell Downstream Director.   Abdulrahman F. Al-Wuhaib, Senior Vice President of Downstream, Saudi Aramco said: “Saudi Aramco subsidiaries and affiliates have had a presence in the  U.S. for over 60 years, and the Motiva joint venture with Shell has  served our downstream business objectives very well for many years.  However, it is now time for the partners to pursue  their independent downstream goals. The Port Arthur refinery will  advance Saudi Aramco’s global downstream integration strategy through  supply & trading, refining and fuels marketing, chemicals and base  oils. Motiva’s employees will continue to be critical  to fulfilling our future growth potential in the Americas, reinforcing  our reliable customer service and supporting the communities where we  operate. We fully support Motiva’s continuing transformation journey to  become an autonomous integrated downstream  affiliate.”  Dan Romasko, Motiva President and CEO, said: “Motiva has benefited greatly from the nearly two decades of support and resources provided by Shell and Saudi Aramco. While the parties work towards definitive agreements, Motiva will  remain focused on our growth agenda, running operations in a safe,  environmentally sound and efficient manner while continuing to reliably  serve our customers.”  Both Motiva shareholders are committed to  supporting the venture during this period of transition and assuring  excellent customer service and continued health, safety and  environmental performance. During the period of transition, shareholder  financing support arrangements for Motiva remain in place and both  shareholders are committed to maintaining Motiva’s balance sheet  strength and liquidity.  Under the terms of the  LOI, the partners will evaluate options and select an optimal deal  structure with the objective of formalizing a definitive agreement to  divide and transfer Motiva Enterprises LLC’s assets,  liabilities and employees between the companies. The companies will  make a further joint announcement in due course.Tata Consultancy Services, (NSE: TCS; BSE: TCS) along with its partners Saudi Aramco and GE (NYSE: GE), today celebrated the 2nd year anniversary of its Riyadh All-Women Center for Business Process and IT Services and the milestone of hiring 1,000 highly skilled employees. The second anniversary of the All-Women Business Process Services and IT Center in Riyadh marks significant progress made with this unique initiative, which was established with the goal of supporting the Kingdom’s socio-economic development strategy by creating a new business model promoting job creation for Saudi women and strengthening economic diversification. HE Khalid Al-Falih, Minister of Health and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Saudi Aramco, HE Dr Mufrej Al-Haqbani, Minister of Labor, HE Abdullatif Al Othman, Governor of Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority (SAGIA), Mr Shane Fitzsimons, Senior Vice President, GE Global Operations, Mr Natarajan Chandrasekaran, CEO & MD of TCS and over 100 dignitaries from Saudi Arabia government entities and business executives attended the second anniversary ceremony in Riyadh. The event was also attended by female leaders from different sectors in Saudi Arabia, including members of the Shura Council and counsellors of various ministries, leaders of Saudi universities, and the executive heads of local and international companies. At the ceremony HE Khalid A. Al-Falih said: “In line with the Kingdom’s economic diversification and job creation objectives, the Riyadh All-Women employee Center is spurring the growth of a viable but under-represented employment sector in our society. The Center is providing an expanding and impressive customer list with vital business process and IT services to help boost customers’ productivity, efficiency and cost management, and in the process is bringing jobs from other parts of the world to the Kingdom and adding real value to our economy.” HE Al-Falih continued: “Saudi Aramco is proud of its role in proactively supporting the Center, alongside our partners Tata Consulting Services and GE. Delivering on our shared vision, the Center has now reached almost 1,000 female employees by its second year anniversary. This is a huge achievement for the Center’s partners, clients and, most importantly, its highly talented and qualified workforce.” “I encourage other companies and government agencies to both take advantage of the remarkable success achieved by the Center and develop opportunities replicating similar business centers in all regions of our Kingdom,” adding “This will provide a welcome and needed boost to our labor market and economy.” The All-Women employee Center was established by TCS, Saudi Aramco and GE in 2013, with TCS and GE owning 76% and 24% equity in the venture. The Centre’s initial clients were Saudi Aramco and GE as ‘anchor clients’, but the Center has extended its capabilities and client list to also include Saudi Telecom Company (STC) and the Saudi Ministry of Economy and Planning. The center has achieved the milestone of hiring 1,000 highly skilled women, 85% local nationals, providing long-term career opportunities. Among the staff are Bachelors, Masters and Doctorate degree holders, demonstrating the high professional standards being set by Saudi women at the center, led by an experienced Saudi leader, Dr Amal Fatani. Mr N. Chandrasekaran, CEO and MD of TCS, said: “Hiring ~1000 highly skilled women is a testimony to our long term commitment to the Saudi Arabia and to further achieve job creation goals of the Kingdom. The endeavour of this Centre is to tap into this local talent pool & help develop women leaders of tomorrow. This is in line with the Kingdom’s objective of improving employability of students during their graduation; with a focus on specialization in professional areas.” Neeraj Srivastava, Regional Director, Saudi Arabia and Bahrain of TCS, added: “We have had many successes, not just in terms of exponential growth but also the progress made with respect to the value added to our customers through process improvements & efficiencies built. We will continue to bring the might of TCS into the Kingdom and enable careers and successes for our employees and customers.” All-Women Business Process and IT Services Center supports GE Global Operations in delivering over 20 key business operations, such as Finance and Accounting, Human Resource Outsourcing, Supply Chain Management, Information Technology and Enterprize Data Management, for more than 50 GE locations world-wide. The GE geographic footprint served by the Center includes the Middle East, North Africa, Turkey, Sub-Saharan Africa, Europe, the USA and India. John Rice, GE Vice Chairman, said: “We are very proud of the great accomplishments and progress made at the Center over the last two years. The talented Saudi women who make up the Center have built it from a start-up into a world-class business process services organization that competes on a global level and supports GE activities in over 50 countries. &nbsp;We value the partnership with Saudi Aramco and TCS to realize new possibilities and translate great talent into meaningful outcomes for the Kingdom and customers across the globe”. Shane Fitzsimons, Senior Vice President, GE Global Operations, said: “It has been an amazing two years of progress and we are delighted that the Center has exceeded our ambitious expectations. A close partnership between TCS, Aramco and GE; the amazing talent in Saudi Arabia; and our focus on delivery, quality and process improvement continues to add value for all customers. We have established a great foundation and can now leverage that to support the growth of the shared services industry across the Kingdom.” The pioneering initiative by three global business leaders – TCS, Saudi Aramco and GE - is underpinned by extensive talent development programs for employees. To date, more than 610,000 cumulative hours of intensive training sessions have been conducted in various disciplines. In addition, both TCS and GE have established partnerships with Saudi academic institutions to incorporate relevant content into their curricula including Business Administration and Information Technology. &nbsp;&nbsp; The Center is now an integral part of the TCS Global Network Delivery Model (GNDMTM), which has locations in over 10 countries including China, Philippines, India, Hungary, United Kingdom, Chile, Ecuador, Uruguay, Mexico and the United States. In 2012 GE committed US$1 billion investment in Saudi Arabia and this joint initiative with Saudi Aramco and TCS demonstrates delivery in support of the Kingdom’s economic growth and diversification. The center in Saudi Arabia is one of five GE Global Operations Centers in the world; the other four are located in Cincinnati, Ohio; Pudong, China; Monterrey, Mexico and Budapest, Hungary.  Looking to reduce the risk of an adverse event and be prepared to act efficiently when the need arises, Saudi Aramco’s Safaniyah Offshore Producing Department (SOfPD) has launched the world’s first jack-up barge to be equipped with a real-time personnel location tracking system. This state-of-the-art system virtually eliminates any uncertainty about the number of crew members aboard the vessel in case of an emergency, and in the event of an incident, allows staff onshore to provide accurate crew information to better coordinate a rapid emergency response with those offshore. Like any other industrial operation, offshore oil production has its own potential hazards. The SOfPD department’s challenge is to reduce the risk of an adverse event and to be prepared to act effectively when the need arises to protect lives and property. It is critical that in the event of an emergency, crew members can be found and mustered to a safe location to organize an emergency response, and if need be, ensure a quick and effective rescue. The potential for human error in the head count leads to uncertainty about how many crew members are onboard the vessel, and in the event of an incident, operators have no way of knowing where their colleagues are. Because of the importance of a coordinated and rapid emergency response across both offshore and the emergency control center onshore, it is important that accurate crew information be available to on-board operators and offshore personnel. The use of radio frequency identification (RFID) technology in ID cards that crew members and visitors must wear as they board achieves a significant update in tracking and identifying those on board at all times. The system begins tracking crew members as soon as they board the vessel, and it continues until they disembark. As barge personnel and visitors arrive onboard through the helideck or gangways, they are issued passive, battery-free RFID cards. These cards are read at checkpoints as personnel and visitors move around the facility. Meanwhile, master controller servers process that data, calculating location information. That information is then relayed to the Tanajib Emergency Control Center, where personnel use configurable maps and reports using software to track the crew. The system then generates alerts when the barge exceeds its total manning capacity. RFID readers at key points establish zone-level location of personnel. These points include gangways, doorways, stairs, and elevators on all decks except the helideck.   The RFID system has several advantages that led to its selection, including its flexible data visualization options, the fact that it is secure from hacking and other intrusions, and it has ATEX (Atmosphères Explosibles) compliant casings for outdoor installations.   SOfPD has established how RFID technology can be used to save lives, and the applications of RFID-based solutions in our business appear to be endless. The technology can be implemented to track people, assets, and supplies on onshore and offshore facilities, including gas-oil separation plants, unmanned platforms, boats, barges, office buildings, and mass transportation such as buses. It can also be used to streamline our supply chain for both construction and production operations.    In addition, RFID can provide us with an unprecedented level of visibility into our operations, enabling data driven decisions. This capability brings with it the potential to enhance operational excellence, boost return on capital, improve safety, and mitigate risk. Saudi Aramco’s president and CEO, Amin H. Nasser called for a new era of industrial diversification, anchored by specialty chemicals, and underpinned by a widespread and rapid in-Kingdom expansion of small to medium enterprises that produce high-value finished and semi-finished products in the petrochemicals conversion sector. This approach will unlock opportunities for the Kingdom’s economic diversification, job creation and innovation potential, and create a world-leading downstream industry, said Nasser.  Speaking at the 4th Saudi Downstream Forum, taking place in Jubail, Saudi Arabia, Nasser said: “To date, the Kingdom’s downstream economic growth has achieved global leadership in the manufacture and export of commodity products. While Saudi Arabia certainly needs its commodities production strength, we also need to radically alter the downstream equation to derive greater benefits in-Kingdom, through knowledge-based and innovation-driven small and medium sized enterprises. Saudi Arabia is already a global leader in petroleum and petrochemical commodities, but today we have a tremendous opportunity to also become a leader in downstream conversion.” With most of the Kingdom’s petrochemicals presently being exported as commodities, major opportunities exist to add value by turning them into high-value, semi-finished and finished products. Diversification into specialty chemicals is expected to increase returns from the current level of about $500 per ton to about $2,000 per ton by 2040. Nasser said that Saudi Aramco’s vision for the creation of a world leading downstream sector in Saudi Arabia is built on four key drivers: maximizing value for the Kingdom’s crude oil production, including vertical and horizontal integration across the hydrocarbon chain; enabling the creation of conversion industries that produce semi-finished and finished goods to diversify the economy; developing advanced technologies and innovation; and, enabling the Kingdom’s sustainable development.  Saudi Aramco’s strategy is to strike a better balance between its unparalleled upstream capacity of 12 million barrels of crude oil per day and its current refining capacity of 5.4 million barrels per day of crude oil in-Kingdom and worldwide. Saudi Aramco has an ambitious plan to raise the Company’s total global refining capacity throughput to between 8 to 10 million barrels per day. Saudi Aramco is collaborating with the Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu, and the Saudi Arabian General Investment Authority to build value parks and locate service providers adjacent to petrochemical facilities, such as Rabigh PlusTech Park at Petro Rabigh on the west coast and the PlasChem Park adjoining Sadara in Jubail Industrial City 2. In his keynote remarks, Nasser called on the industry to do much more to support the development of home-grown downstream technologies - an area in which the Kingdom can make major advances - such as breakthrough crude oil-to-chemicals technologies that will make oil a viable petrochemical feedstock. Saudi Aramco is currently developing and testing highly advanced oil-to-chemicals technologies, he said. Also speaking at the Saudi Downstream Forum, Warren Wilder, Vice President of Chemicals said: “International partnerships and collaboration are a hallmark of Saudi Aramco’s successful strategy to optimize the full value and economic potential of the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon reserves. We continue to look for opportunities in growing markets, and many of these opportunities will involve the integration of petrochemicals with new refineries.”  At the Saudi Downstream Forum, Saudi Aramco showcased the scale and technological strength of its downstream activities through an exhibition highlighting its refining and petrochemicals operations. The biennial Forum is the Kingdom’s largest downstream gathering, combining a strategic conference and international exhibition.  Members of the World Economic Forum’s Young Global Leaders (YGLs), a unique and diverse community of the world’s most outstanding, next generation leaders, recently enjoyed an unprecedented, high-level visit to Saudi Arabia. They came from all over the world, and took part in a busy week of insightful meetings with some of the Kingdom’s leadership, industry visits, discussions with public and private sector decision makers, and conversations with social innovators and policymakers, all interspersed with a mix of Saudi hospitality, culture and recreation. The visit gave the young leaders an opportunity to hear these Saudi business leaders speak candidly about their work and direction. The common trait among them was that they were all working toward positive social impact channeled through industries, vocations and missions. The YGLs spent the day with Saudi Aramco, meeting with leadership and learning about the culture, output and talent of the business. One of the participants, Asma Siddiki said of the visit: ‘The day with Saudi Aramco may have been the most diverse. Nationally, both its own output and its talent are at the forefront of work being carried out through the Accelerated Transformation Program. The culture at Saudi Aramco needs replication, adaption, and execution across the country. It is efficient, focused, inclusive and forward-looking’. Amin Nasser, President and CEO of Saudi Aramco, spent time with the YGLs during their visit, providing the opportunity for conversation about the business. The young leaders also learnt more about Saudi Aramco’s own young leaders program, the Young Leaders Advisory Board (YLAB). Composed of young men and women from across the company, it is an inclusive program that diversifies the counsel and perspectives received by corporate management while also empowering its future stakeholders and leaders. Other highlights of the day included a visit to the new King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, a futuristic hub for learning and outreach, and an overview of plans for a wildlife preserve area near the Shaybah oil field. The YGL community is made up of leaders from all walks of life, from every region in the world. Nominated under 40, they are proposed through a qualified nomination process and assessed according to rigorous selection criteria that creates a diverse and representative body.  In recognition of navigating the company through times of unprecedented growth and significant challenges in the global petroleum industry, HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Chairman of the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors, has been named the 2016 Energy Intelligence Petroleum Executive of the Year. Al-Falih, who is the 20th winner of the highly regarded peer-selected honor, was chosen by a committee comprising top global oil industry executives. The award will be presented to Al-Falih on Oct. 18 during the 37th Annual Oil & Money Conference in London. “The selection of HE Khalid A. Al-Falih by his peers is a reflection of his strong leadership of Saudi Aramco, the world’s largest oil company, during a period of dynamic growth and unprecedented challenges to the international petroleum industry,” said Thomas Wallin, editor-in-chief of Energy Intelligence. Al-Falih was appointed Chairman of the Saudi Aramco Board of Directors in April 2015. He joined the company in 1979, quickly rising in the company and taking on increasing roles of responsibility, which included being named president and CEO in January 2009 — a role he held until being named Minister of Health and Chairman of the Board. In recognizing Al-Falih, his peers noted that he oversaw the expansion of Saudi Aramco’s oil production capacity through a number of upstream projects and also significantly increased its refining and petrochemical capabilities through a series of new world-class facilities. In addition, the company has continued to reliably supply international petroleum markets as the world’s largest exporter of crude oil, with direct sales to all main world markets, as well as supplying its own international refining and marketing partnerships. Under his leadership, the company became a major natural gas producer as part of a strategy to reduce the domestic use of liquid fuel for power generation and to drive economic growth and diversification.On receiving the award, Al-Falih expressed his thanks and appreciation to his peers who nominated him. “The recognition is not for me personally. In fact, it is an expression of trust by the industry in the capabilities, excellence, and continuous effort of the company’s employees, without whom the company could not have reached its pre-eminent position in the industry. I am proud to be a Saudi Aramco team member all of these years,” he added. Al-Falih was instrumental in Saudi Aramco’s emergence as a leading innovator and creator of advanced technology through the establishment of a network of research centers — both in-Kingdom and internationally — in partnership with world-renowned academic and industry research institutions. In the lead-up to the UN International Conference on Climate Change — COP21 Paris — Al-Falih played a leading role in the World Economic Forum-sponsored Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, an industry-driven initiative that sought to catalyze practical, meaningful, and technology-enabled actions to address climate change. In September 2014, Al-Falih spoke on behalf of the industry at the UN-sponsored Climate Summit in New York, where he called for collaboration and the sharing of best practices and technical solutions to address climate change and sustainable energy. Al-Falih holds a bachelor’s of science degree in mechanical engineering from Texas A&M University, and a master’s of business administration degree from King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals (KFUPM). He was chairman of the World Economic Forum Oil & Gas Community and has served on many boards, including: He is currently serving on the board of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology (founding member) and on the American University of Sharjah Board of Trustees. Our Safaniyah Onshore Producing Department (SONPD) recently completed an ambitious, and successful, initiative to reduce gas flaring in its operations.  As a part of SONPD’s journey toward Operational Excellence, an in-house flare recovery system was designed and constructed at Tanajib Plants to eliminate daily gas flaring to protect the environment from harmful emissions such as sulfur oxide (SOx) and nitrogen oxide (NOx). “This enhancement is another example of the cascading responsibility within the company to maximize environmental stewardship in every aspect of our operations and by every organization,” said SONPD manager Mansour F. Al Dossary. “This further ensures Saudi Aramco’s position as a world leader in environmental protection. It is also a clear indication that by leveraging our internal capabilities, we can achieve a lot with relatively minimal investments in some cases.” The project design stage required process and safety impact studies to ensure that the newly installed system would not compromise the plant’s operational safety. After the completion of both studies, SONPD proceeded with implementation of the design with in-house material and workmanship ensuring minimum cost. The system was commissioned in late 2015, and since then, it has been recovering 0.41 million standard cubic feet per day (scfd) without any impact on plant operations. This amount adds up to an anticipated flare recovery of 150 million scfd every year and an overall decrease of harmful SOx emissions of 450 tons per year, in addition to a profit gain of $1.5 million. The initiative was one of SONPD’s many environmental initiatives undertaken during the past year to help maintain a healthier environment while excelling at its core business of oil and gas production. Currently, Sadara has more than 4,300 employees — more than 60% of whom are Saudis. Almost 2,000 of these employees have undergone intensive, technology centric, on-the-job training at various Saudi Aramco and Dow Chemical sites, in Saudi Arabia and around the world. The Sadara on-the-job training program is one of the largest and most sophisticated technology training programs ever undertaken by a Saudi company.PlasChem Park, a collaborative effort between Sadara and the Royal Commission for Jubail and Yanbu’, is currently under development and is expected to create 20,000 direct and indirect jobs through a number of locally owned manufacturers, and it is the key to realizing the full value that the Sadara complex provides to the Kingdom. By offering the advantages of easy access to Sadara’s highly differentiated chemical products and the strong industrial and regulatory infrastructure in Jubail, PlasChem provides investors with the ability to convert feedstock into high-value finished products, such as car parts, refrigerator parts, adhesives, cleaning products and paints. The revenue from these manufactured goods, and the creation of thousands of sustainable new jobs, will strengthen and diversify the Saudi economy.The boards of directors of Saudi Aramco, Dow Chemical Company (Dow), and the Sadara Chemical Company gathered at the Sadara complex recently to get a closer look at the significant progress made at the facility. The visit was headed by Saudi Aramco Chairman of the Board of Directors HE Khalid A. Al-Falih and Dow Chairman and CEO, Andrew Liveris. Board members heard presentations about the overall project progress — which is now 98% complete — and took a tour of the Sadara facilities, as well as the adjacent PlasChem Park, which is being developed for local manufacturers to make use of Sadara’s specialty feedstocks. The $20-billion project is the world’s largest chemical complex ever built in a single phase. The six-square-kilometer complex is comprised of 26 plants, 14 of which are producing specialty chemical products that have never been produced in the Kingdom previously. One of these plants, the Solution Polyethylene plant, has already begun production and shipped its first products to Singapore late last year. By partnering with Dow to build Sadara, Saudi Aramco is making huge strides toward our commitment to support and strengthen the Saudi economy through diversification. Saudi Aramco aspires not only to become a global leader in energy and petrochemicals; it also commits itself to help diversify the Saudi economy through strategic investments in key industries that will attract foreign and domestic investment, which will in turn create manufacturing opportunities, as well as thousands of new highly skilled jobs for Saudi citizens. Al-Falih commended the board members from Dow and Saudi Aramco for their “bold” decision more than eight years ago to form a partnership to build Sadara.    “Thanks to Dow and Saudi Aramco’s partnership, our shared vision for Sadara is fast becoming a reality: an unprecedented achievement of historic size and scale,” said Liveris. “By combining globally competitive feedstocks with cutting-edge innovation, Sadara will generate billions of dollars in revenues and create thousands of jobs.”   “Sadara is a huge testament to the power of partnership that has made this magnificent achievement possible,” said Amin Nasser, Saudi Aramco president and CEO. “We have faced many challenges over the years — complex technological challenges, economic uncertainty — but both companies stood firm to make Sadara a reality.”  Six high-efficiency gas compression trains for the first phase of Saudi Aramco’s Master Gas System Expansion Project have been assembled locally in Dammam, Saudi Arabia, for the first time, marking a significant boost to efforts in promoting localization and developing local content. The local manufacturing of the compression trains by GE Oil and Gas is in line with the vision of Saudi Aramco’s In-Kingdom Total Value Add Program (IKTVA), a program designed to drive domestic value creation and maximize long-term economic growth and diversification to support a rapidly changing Saudi economy. By 2021, Saudi Aramco is striving to achieve a 70% localization of spending, creating a business environment that will provide 500,000 new jobs and enable 30% export of Saudi energy sector products.  GE Oil and Gas recently cut the ribbon on one of the units at its GE Manufacturing and Technology (GEMTEC) Dammam facility. Saudi Aramco has encouraged GE to invest in its Dammam facility so that it can perform complex assemblies.    GE Oil and Gas places a strong focus on localization - the first high-efficiency compression trains assembled locally, represent a key milestone in the IKTVA program initiatives. How GE are executing this project underpins their commitment to developing the Saudi economy through job creation, knowledge transfer and supporting local sourcing.   A total of six compression trains, which have been fully assembled locally at GEMTEC, are part of a multi-million dollar contract to provide 18 high-efficiency gas compression trains — each consisting of an aero-derivative gas turbine driving a centrifugal compressor.   In 2016, six more trains will be assembled at GEMTEC as part of the second phase of the Master Gas System Expansion Project.    It is the first time that high-efficiency compression trains have been assembled in Saudi Arabia, at a center where 70% of the workforce are Saudi nationals. As part of this program, GE Oil and Gas has qualified a network of Saudi-based suppliers for local and international GE markets.    The development marks a strong demonstration of Saudi Aramco’s IKTVA program capitalizing on the three program objectives: to localize, to export energy-related goods and services, and to boost Saudization. Saudi Aramco has announced the results of the company’s celebrated annual Excellence Awards for 2015. The awards recognize outstanding individual and team achievements and significant contributions to helping Saudi Aramco deliver its objective of becoming the world’s leading integrated energy company. Amin Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco presented awards to 46 company employees, comprising five individual and eight team awards recognitions at a ceremony also attended by HE Khalid Al-Falih, Chairman and the Board of Directors of Saudi Aramco, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Communications & Information Technology, the Rector of King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals and Dr. Majid Moneef, Secretary of Saudi Aramco’s Supreme Council. Nasser said: “Saudi Aramco is committed to investing in technology, innovation, operational excellence and our greatest asset - our employees - to help maintain our position as the world’s most reliable supplier of energy. I am delighted to recognize this year’s individual and team Excellence Awards winners who have made exceptional contributions to the Company and, by extension, to the Kingdom and to our expanding global customer base. ”This year’s award winners recognized accomplishments in environmental sustainability and cost reduction, and innovation in areas including: fuel technology, robotic coating defect detection, reservoir simulation supercomputing, and high severity fluid catalytic cracking. On behalf of the company’s research and technology function, Ahmad Al-Khowaiter, Chief Technology Officer was presented with a Chairman’s award for achieving 123 successfully granted patents in 2015 with 226 patent applications filed, against targets of 100 and 175 respectively. This is an exceptional achievement within the oil and gas industry, positioning Saudi Aramco within the top five oil and gas companies in terms of innovation. Saudi Aramco Gas Operations has successfully deployed a corporate procurement agreement and long-term service agreement with the world’s largest heavy industrial gas turbine supplier, Mitsubishi Hitachi Power Systems Ltd. (MHPS).  The first-of-its-kind agreement between the two companies will provide field maintenance, monitoring and extensive technical support of gas turbines by domestically sourced maintenance, parts management, parts supply and repair, thereby creating local jobs.  Abdullah M. Al Ghamdi, executive director of Gas Operations: “The project was driven by cost optimization and operational excellence to operate the Gas Operations’ power plant as best-in-class according to the global benchmarking key performance indicators.”. The agreement assigns MHPS to expertise the maintenance of their equipment installed at Saudi Aramco facilities, including generators and all auxiliary systems under the partnership of its operating facilities. This includes management of Saudi Aramco’s fleet of MHPS gas turbines and spare parts sharing, covering the gas turbine generator and auxiliaries, including storage, inventory management, and logistics by MHPS.  A local repair facility — with 50% Saudization — is established to facilitate all types of gas turbine parts repair, including a training and simulation center to provide in-Kingdom training for Saudi engineers and technicians.  To date, Mitsubishi’s local affiliate, MHI Power Systems Co. LLC, has delivered 11 M501F gas turbines to Saudi Aramco, producing almost 2,000 megawatts. The Aramco Houston Half Marathon is known in running circles to be a fast course, and this year, excellent weather conditions and a strong field of elite runners proved that reputation to be true. Mary Wacera, an athlete from Kenya, broke the record for fastest half marathon ever run by a woman on U.S. soil, finishing the 13.1-mile race in 1:06:29 — almost two minutes faster than the previous U.S. record. In the men’s category, Lelisa Desisa, from Ethiopia, claimed victory with a time of 1:00:37, not far off the Aramco course record of 59:22. These wins were part of a weekend full of highlights. The Aramco Houston Half Marathon celebrated its 11th consecutive year as a sold-out race, and it was the largest ever with nearly 15,000 registered runners. The race and the Chevron Marathon, held on the same weekend, were also streamed live and worldwide on Disney-owned ESPN3, a Web channel. That coverage, added to broadcasts by ABC’s Houston station and the University of Texas’s Longhorn Channel, meant the event reached 120 million homes worldwide. Houston’s newly elected mayor, Sylvester Turner, joined Aramco and Chevron at the press conference and the start line, saying he “couldn’t be more thrilled” with Marathon Weekend and what it does for the city and the corporate sponsors. Annually, the races bring in millions of dollars for local charities through the Run for a Reason fundraising program, and they attract about 250,000 spectators and thousands of volunteers, including 300 from Aramco who distributed race bibs and T-shirts, staffed an Aramco booth at the public health-and-fitness expo, and handed out finisher medals. During his remarks at the press conference, president of Aramco Services Company Basil Abul-Hamayel said, “For Aramco, this is more than an annual event; it is a proud tradition that is especially meaningful because it makes such an important contribution to Houston, to runners around the world, and to local charities.” Saudi Aramco continues to champion the development of local industries and stimulate the growth of an institutionalized program launched by the Company, said Amin H. Nasser, President and Chief Executive Officer of Saudi Aramco at the 9th Global Competitiveness Forum (GCF) in Riyadh. Nasser was referring to the In-Kingdom Total Value Add (IKTVA) program, just launched in December 2015 which represents Saudi Aramco’s commitment to local content development that is now required across its domestic and international supply chain. “We are making it a requirement for our business partners to ensure that 70% of content for any projects and deliverables are made in Saudi Arabia in 2015, resulting in 500,000 jobs created in the long term,” he said. Nasser was a speaker at the panel session titled ‘Low Oil, High Growth: Prospering in a Low Oil Era’. Nasser also reinforced Saudi Aramco’s commitment to continue its hydrocarbon investments while further developing its renewable energy portfolio by actively surveying and identifying areas within the Kingdom to exploit the potentials of wind and solar. “It is definitely part of what we do and with all these initiatives, we can become a significant enabler of renewable energy in the Kingdom as well as establishment of knowledge-based and innovative-based industries,” he said. This year’s forum focused on “Competitive Sectors” as a theme and shed light on the ingredients that are essential in driving the competitiveness of sectors. In tandem, panelists discussed the strategies that governments may follow to accelerate competitiveness. Saudi Aramco was represented at GCF 2016 by three members of its leadership – His Excellency Khalid Al-Falih, Chairman; Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO; and Huda M. Al-Ghoson, Executive Director of Human Resources. Al-Ghoson was a speaker at the panel session titled ‘Bridging the Skills and Innovation Gap for More Productive Sectors’. She noted that Saudi Aramco’s human resources strategy is structured around four focus areas: talent acquisition, talent development, talent retention, and organization effectiveness. “Closing the skills gap requires effective and sustainable partnerships with academia, the private and public sectors, suppliers and other stakeholders. For any organization to achieve success in this area, its HR strategy must be supported by a dynamic employment value proposition (EVP), a corporate culture of performance, innovation and excellence, and a holistic long-term investment in human resources development from hire to retire,” she said. The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, the King of Saudi Arabia today inaugurated The King Abdullah Petroleum Studies and Research Center (KAPSARC) - a non-profit economics and policy research institution dedicated to finding solutions for the most effective and productive use of energy to enable economic and social progress across the globe. KAPSARC undertakes global collaborative research on the economic impacts of energy, its technologies, policies and the environment.   The inauguration ceremony was attended by HRH Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Saudi Deputy Crown Prince and Defense Minister; HE Ali bin Ibrahim Al-Naimi, Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and Chairman of the Board of KAPSARC; and, HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Health and Chairman of the Board of Saudi Aramco.   HE Ali Al-Naimi said: "Today’s inauguration, under the patronage of HRH King Salman, reflects the Kingdom’s strong support of KAPSARC’s mission to expand global knowledge and understanding of energy to benefit society and the environment. Oil and gas have made and will continue to make a significant contribution to the Kingdom’s success and prosperity. Today, we also need to develop different sources of energy to be able to compete economically and, at the same time, meet the future development needs of the Kingdom, while protecting the environment and finding practical technology-enabled solutions to use energy more efficiently."   Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco said: "Energy is the main pillar of Saudi Arabia’s economy and the cornerstone of development and prosperity of economies around the world. With the increased complexity of global energy, it is important to continuously expand the boundaries of knowledge through collaboration and research. Saudi Aramco is honored to have helped establish KAPSARC which is a state of the art research center that brings together the brightest people from Saudi Arabia and around the world to tackle energy challenges. The Centre is characterized by its innovative design that integrates the highest standards of environmental conservation. Saudi Aramco will continue to support KAPSARC to achieve its mission and goals."   Samer AlAshgar, President of KAPSARC said: "KAPSARC is all about improving the welfare of societies through a better understanding of the value that energy provides. We aim to develop frameworks for sustainable, value-added energy production and consumption in Saudi Arabia and around the world. Our mission proudly reflects the late King Abdullah’s vision, as we seek to make Saudi Arabia a leading source of energy insight in global discussions. On behalf of KAPSARC and its global research partners, I would like to take this opportunity to sincerely thank His Majesty King Salman for officially inaugurating our Riyadh facility and the continuing support given to the Center to fulfill its mission."  In 2015, KAPSARC moved into its Riyadh headquarters, constructed by Saudi Aramco and designed by renowned architect Zaha Hadid. The Center now comprises a diverse team of over 15 nationalities. The Center has established a global footprint of collaborative partnerships, including institutions from China, India, Japan, East Africa, Europe and the Americas.  The Custodian of the Two Holy Mosques King Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, the King of Saudi Arabia and His Excellency Xi Jinping, the President of the People's Republic of China today jointly inaugurated the Yanbu Aramco Sinopec Refining Company (YASREF) refinery. The inauguration ceremony took place in Riyadh in conjunction with President Xi Jinping's official visit to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. It&nbsp; was attended by HRH Mohammad bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud, Saudi Deputy Crown Prince and Defense Minister; HE Ali bin Ibrahim Al-Naimi, Minister of Petroleum and Mineral Resources, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia; HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Minister of Health and Chairman of the Board of Saudi Aramco. Established on January 14, 2012, YASREF is a joint venture between Saudi Aramco, which holds a 62.5% share, and China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (“Sinopec”), which holds a 37.5% share. YASREF represents both companies' focus on driving downstream growth across the entire hydrocarbon chain. In conjunction with the inauguration, the YASREF joint venture partners, Saudi Aramco and Sinopec, signed a “Framework Agreement for Strategic Cooperation” to enhance the competitiveness of the crude oil supplied by Saudi Aramco to Sinopec and to actively explore cooperation opportunities in key areas including oil and gas services, refining, chemicals, crude oil supply, sales, petroleum services, petrochemical services, technology development and promotion, and new energy. HE Khalid A. Al-Falih, Chairman of Saudi Aramco said: “The mutually beneficial relationship between China and Saudi Arabia has rapidly strengthened in the last two decades. China is the Kingdom’s largest trading partner and Saudi Aramco is proud to be China’s number one supplier of energy. YASREF, which is a partnership between Sinopec and Saudi Aramco, is part of Saudi Aramco’s strategy to expand and diversify its national and international investment portfolio.” HE Al-Falih continued: “Three strategic factors will help to further strengthen the relationship and transform it from transactional supply to a deeper, long-term partnership. First, is the doubling of Saudi Arabia’s energy supply to China, coupled with continued downstream investment to support economic growth, both in China and the Kingdom. The second, is implementing His Excellency Xi Jinping’s ‘One Belt-One Road’ initiative that will enable both the Kingdom to become a stronger partner to China, and also increase China’s investment in the Kingdom’s economic and industrial cities so that the Kingdom is a hub for China to access its Middle East and Africa markets. Thirdly, is the need to continually improve the mutual cooperation between the Kingdom and China in the areas of research, innovation, knowledge transfer, and culture.” HE Al-Falih concluded: “The MOUs signed today between the Kingdom and China are evidence of the focused leadership of both countries to take the relationship to the next level.” Amin H. Nasser, President and CEO, Saudi Aramco said: “YASREF is a win-win partnership with Sinopec and a key element of Saudi Aramco's strategy of driving value across the hydrocarbons value-chain to maintain our position as the world’s most reliable energy supplier. YASREF converts Arabian heavy crude oil into high-value products for international markets. The facility, which embeds world-class technical standards, increases Saudi Aramco’s refining capacity and is an important step in our strategy to become the world’s leading integrated energy enterprise. Today's inauguration and cooperation agreement signing reflect shared confidence in our long-term partnership with Sinopec and in the potential opportunities we can create together through deeper, long-term collaboration.” Dr. Wang Yupu, Chairman of Sinopec said: “YASREF will play a significant role in promoting the economic and trade cooperation between China and Saudi Arabia and in enhancing the long-standing friendship between the two countries. Sinopec possesses world-class refining and chemical technologies, strong engineering and construction capabilities, and developed a set of technologies on aromatics production that is both advanced and cost effective. We are delighted to further expand and deepen our cooperation with Saudi Arabia in oil and gas exploration and development, refinery and chemical technologies and engineering services and equipment production, to promote the mutual development of both economies and contribute to the well-being of our citizens.” Mohammad S. Alshammari, YASREF President & CEO said: “The official inauguration of YASREF marks a proud accomplishment for YASREF, Saudi Aramco and Sinopec. YASREF is a global refinery leader that is helping global customers to meet their energy demands.” China is Saudi Arabia’s largest trading partner and the countries’ close cooperation in the energy sector, notably through Sinopec and Saudi Aramco, has greatly benefitted both economies. Sinopec is now Saudi Aramco’s largest crude oil trading partner and onshore drilling service provider. The newly signed agreement will enable the two companies to further enhance their relationship and jointly provide advanced, high quality products and services along the hydrocarbon industry chain. Located in Yanbu' Industrial City on the west coast of Saudi Arabia, the world-class YASREF refinery has the capacity to refine 400,000 barrels per day (bpd) of Arabian heavy crude and produces over 13.5 million gallons per day of ultra-clean transportation fuels and other high-value refined products. YASREF has state-of-the-art refining facilities such as a distillate hydrocracker and hydrotreaters. It has capacity to deliver close to 100,000 barrels per day of clean, high-octane gasoline through a gasoline complex with an advanced continuous catalytic reformer. On January 15, 2015, YASREF completed its first shipment, sending 300,000 barrels of clean diesel fuel from the YASREF Marine Terminal. Going forward, YASREF will further enhance its refinery and chemical capabilities by leveraging the cooperation between Sinopec and Saudi Aramco. In December 2015, YASREF won ‘Construction Project of the Year' at the highly prestigious Platts Global Energy Awards in New York City. Saudi Arabian Oil Company (Saudi Aramco) and Petroleos Mexicanos (Pemex) today signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) establishing a collaborative framework between both companies. Amin H. Nasser, Saudi Aramco President & CEO and Emilio Lozoya, Chief Executive Officer of Pemex signed the MOU at a ceremony at Saudi Aramco headquarters in Dhahran. Under the terms of the MOU, both companies engage in several areas of collaboration and knowledge sharing, including the exchange of information on best practices in upstream and downstream operations and related support services. The MOU also establishes a collaborative basis for the exchange of information on best practices in the areas of operational excellence, sustainability and energy efficiency, innovation and technology development.Saudi Aramco President & CEO said “the signing of an MOU with Pemex encourages a mutually-beneficial relationship for the best interest of our companies. Both Saudi Aramco and Pemex will benefit from the exchange of skills, best practices, and experiences through mutual collaboration. This MOU will help us identify opportunities to cooperate, and allow us to share best practices in our core business operations and areas like support services.” Emilio Lozoya, Chief Executive Officer of Pemex said “this MOU reinforces and enhances a long time close relationship between our companies. We both face the same challenges regarding achieving an efficient, safe and low cost production that should be sustainable at the same time. I am certain that with this renewed collaboration and exchange of best practice both companies win.” During his visit to Saudi Aramco headquarters, Mr. Lozoya visited company facilities, including the geo-steering center, the Upstream Professional Development Center and toured Manifa offshore field. Recognizing our efforts in completing the King Abdullah Sports City in Jiddah in a short period of time and with the highest standards of quality and cost control, HRH Prince Khalid Al-Faisal, governor of Makkah, recently presented Saudi Aramco with the “Makkah Award for Architectural Excellence” for 2015. The award was accepted by Amin Nasser, president and CEO of Saudi Aramco, in the presence of HRH Prince Mishaal bin Majed, Governor of the Jiddah Province, and a number of members of the royal family and ministers, as well as other award winners and specialists involved with the various branches of the awards. Nasser said Saudi Aramco was proud to participate in building the Jewel of Jiddah and thanked the wise leadership of the Kingdom that supported the completion of the project, which “will give people training, recreation, and athletic opportunities today and for generations to come. “Saudi Aramco continues to support the progress of the nation and consolidation of progress in development and sustainability in our beloved Kingdom,” he added. Nasser spoke about the story of designing King Abdullah Sports City and said the design was shared with the late King Abdullah in 2002. At that time, the king instructed that the facility should express the Islamic spirit of Jiddah, since it is a gateway to the Two Holy Mosques. The design also strived to reflect the vision of the Kingdom to be a leading Arab nation. Nasser said that since the Islamic culture was, and still is, a source of inspiration, the idea of the design symbolized a shining jewel clad with facades reflecting the local “mashrabiya,” an architecture form commonly found in the Western Region. These facades provide shade throughout the interior corridors of the stadium. Construction of the project took about one year, and was completed in 2014. On May 1 of that year, the city was officially opened by then-King Abdullah. King Abdullah Sports City contains an international soccer stadium that can accommodate a capacity of more than 62,000, three separate soccer stadiums, four small indoor arenas that can also be used for soccer, six tennis courts, a large indoor arena for sports and other purposes, as well as a primary mosque and six smaller mosques, a comprehensive media center, and other amenities, among which are hundreds of seats for individuals with special needs, lobby areas featuring artwork from prominent Saudi artists, and a number of halls and areas for press conferences. The Makkah Excellence Awards are designed to encourage the distinguished quality of work of prominent individual or collective efforts. The award includes eight major areas, including excellence in Haj and Umrah services, administrative excellence, economic excellence, social excellence, cultural excellence, environmental excellence, architectural excellence, and scientific and technical excellence. Winners in these fields were honored during the annual award ceremony held in the Western Region.  Aramco Asia Japan (AAJ) forged a partnership with seven top-level inspection service providers to support engineering services operations in Asia for the next five years.  The contractors will perform the inspection activities mandated by Saudi Aramco engineering standards on all of the inspectable materials procured from Asia directly by the company or through projects and joint ventures. AAJ representative director Ahmed Alkhunaini signed the contracts with the representatives of the seven inspection firms in a ceremony that attracted more than 50 attendees in Tokyo. The seven Inspection firms are SGS, Japan Inspection Co., ABS Consulting, Bureau Veritas, Intertek, Tuboscope, and Edif NDE. Speaking at the opening ceremony, Alkhunaini congratulated the contractors and emphasized the importance of the key role that inspection companies have played in ensuring a sustainable material supply chain. Alkhunaini called for the direct involvement of contractors’ management in contributing to a competent and sufficient workforce. “Saudi Aramco’s sourcing team is tapping into new countries to discover and approve new sources for material demands. This challenge needs your direct involvement to secure a sufficient number of competent inspectors for all commodities, boost their knowledge and elevate their awareness through continuous training,” he said. Moalla Al Omari, head of the Aramco Asia Quality Management Division (AAQMD), briefed the attendees with an overview of Quality Management. He introduced statistical information that quantified the workload in Asia, lessons learned, and a list of challenges that can’t be met without significant collaborative efforts. He also advocated the new administrative tools basket designed by the AAQMD team to be utilized by contractors for smoother inspection operations. The contracts signed cover India, as well, in an effort to migrate the India operation from Aramco Overseas Company to Aramco Asia. Saudi Aramco confirms that it has been studying various options to allow broad public participation in its equity through the listing in the capital markets of an appropriate percentage of the Company’s shares and/or the listing of a bundle of its downstream subsidiaries. Once the study of these various options is complete, the findings will be presented to the Company’s Board of Directors which will make its recommendations to the Saudi Aramco Supreme Council. This proposal is consistent with the broad and progressive direction pursued by the Kingdom for reforms, including privatization in various sectors of the Saudi economy and deregulation of markets, which the Company strongly supports. Saudi Aramco would like to emphasize that this process will strengthen the Company's focus on its long term vision of becoming the world’s leading energy and chemical enterprise. This includes prudently managing the Kingdom’s hydrocarbon resources, adding value across the value chain, reliably meeting its customers’ demand, and meeting its stakeholder and environmental commitments. 